VIDEO 32: Free CCNA | VLANs (Part 2) | Day 17 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iRkFE_lpYgc
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 23m 23s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to download this practice lab from the link in the description and try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even more powerful, less limited than Packet Tracer, and it includes plenty of pre-made labs with detailed instructions to help you practice and learn. I have collapsed all of the other sections here, network fundamentals, IP connectivity, IP services, and security fundamentals, but the labs that are relevant to what we're studying now are here in the Network Access section. Configuring VLANs, VLANs, deleting VLANs, these two are about VTP, which will be covered in Day 18's lecture video, VLAN configuration, trunking, stick around to the end of the video for a preview of a lab that is relevant to what we're studying today. And once again, click the link in the description to purchase a copy of NetSim for CCNA. I used NetSim for my CCNP, and NetSim alone was more than enough labbing practice for me to pass all of my exams on the first try. Let's go back to Packet Tracer. In this lab, we will configure VLANs, specifically VLAN trunking, as we covered in Day 17's lecture video. This is the same network to apology used in Day 17's lecture video. Only the IP addresses have been changed slightly. So let's get started with step one. Step one says to configure the switch interfaces connected to PCs as access ports in the correct VLAN. I'll go on switch one first. Enter privileged exec mode with enable, then global config mode with configure terminal. So there are two PCs in VLAN 10. Let's configure those first. Interface range, F01 to 2. Switch port mode access, switch port access VLAN 10, and the switch creates VLAN 10 for us. Okay, that's all for these hosts. Next up VLAN 30. Interface range, F03 to 4. Switch port mode access, switch port access VLAN 30. Once again, the switch creates the VLAN for us. Okay, that's all for switch one for now. Next let's go on to switch two. Enter privileged exec mode with enable, then global config mode with conft, configure terminal. I'll configure VLAN 21st. Interface F01. Switch port mode access, switch port access VLAN 20. Next VLAN 10. Interface range, F02 to 3. Switch port mode access, switch port access VLAN 10. Okay, step one is complete. Step two is to configure the connection between switch one and switch two as a trunk, and allow only the necessary VLANs. We should configure an unused VLAN as the native VLAN, and also make sure all necessary VLANs exist on each switch. I'll return to switch one now. Okay, let's configure the interface. Interface G01. If you remember from the lecture video, in some switches we have to use the switch port, trunk, and encapsulation.1Q command before configuring the interface as a trunk. Let's see if we have to do that here. Switch port trunk, then use the question mark. As you can see, there is no option for encapsulation. This isn't a case of packet tracer not supporting the command, but rather it's because this switch itself only supports dot1Q encapsulation. As I mentioned in the lecture video, modern switches often don't support Cisco's ISL, as the industry standard dot1Q is used almost exclusively. So we can go straight to the next command, switch port mode trunk. Now let's allow VLANs 10 and 30. Switch port trunk allowed VLAN 10,30. Why don't I need to allow VLAN 20 on this trunk? I already explained this in the lecture video, but it's because no hosts in VLAN 20 are connected to this switch. If PC5 in VLAN 20 wants to reach any hosts here, its traffic will be sent to the router first, which will send it back to switch 2 in VLAN 10 or VLAN 30, which will then send it over to switch 1. Watch the lecture video again if you want a more detailed explanation. Okay, finally let's set the native VLAN to an unused VLAN. Switch port trunk native VLAN, 1,001. You can use anything here, just use an unused VLAN. Now, do all of the necessary VLANs exist on this switch? Let's check. Do show VLAN brief. We have VLANs 10 and 30. Looks good. We don't need to create any more VLANs. Okay, now let's go to switch 2. Interface G01. The configurations will be the same as on switch 1. Switch port mode trunk. Switch port trunk allowed VLAN 10,30. Again, VLAN 20 doesn't need to be allowed. There are no VLAN 20 hosts connected to switch 1, so switch 2 doesn't need to send VLAN 20 traffic along this trunk. Okay, next set the native VLAN. Port trunk native VLAN, 1,001. Okay, that's all for the configuration of the trunk. Now do all necessary VLANs exist on the switch? Do show VLAN brief. We have VLANs 10 and 20. Let's do another show command. Do show interfaces trunk. So VLANs 10 and 30 are allowed on the trunk, which is good. However, look under here. VLANs allowed and active in management domain displays only VLAN 10. That's a problem. It means switch 2 won't actually receive VLAN 30 traffic on this trunk. That's because VLAN 30 doesn't exist yet on the switch. VLANs 10 and 20 were automatically created when we configured access ports in those VLANs, but VLAN 30 wasn't created. So let's make it. VLAN 30. Exit. Do show interfaces trunk. Okay, now you can see that it appears here. That's all for step 2. Step 3 is to configure the connection between switch 2 and R1 using router on a stick. Let's quickly do the configuration here on switch 2 first. It will be mostly the same as the G01 trunk, except we must allow all three VLANs. Interface G02. Switch port mode trunk. Switch port trunk allowed VLAN 10, 20, 30. Switch port trunk native VLAN 101. That's all for the switch. Now let's go on to R1. Enter privileged exec mode with enable, then conf t to enter global config mode. First let's enable the physical interface. Use G00, no shutdown. As I have said many times before, Cisco router interfaces are disabled by default. Now let's configure the VLAN 10 sub interface. Interface G00.10. This sub interface number doesn't have to match the VLAN number, but you really should make them match. Okay, let's set the VLAN number itself. In capsulation.1Q10. Finally the IP address, which should be the last usable address of the subnet, according to the instructions. IP address 10.0.0.62 255.255.255.192. Okay that's it. I get the question sometimes. Why does the router address have to be the last usable address? Well it doesn't have to be, but you should have a system you use, either the first usable address or the last usable address as the gateway address for the subnet, so there is consistency across the network. Don't just use a random address for the router, or it will be difficult to understand things in a large network. Okay, now let's configure VLAN 20 sub interface. Enterface g00.20 and capsulation.1Q20. Once again set the last usable address as the router's address. IP address 10.0.0.126 255.255.255.192. Okay finally is VLAN 30 sub interface. This g00.30. In capsulation.1Q30. IP address 10.0.0.190 255.255.255.192, which is the last usable address of the VLAN 30 subnet. So that's all of the configurations for this lab. Next up is to test connectivity. If everything is configured correctly, each PC should be able to ping any other PC. I'll do some pings from PC7 to test. Let's ping another PC in VLAN 10, PC1. Ping 10.0.0.1. Okay, no problems here. Let's watch the ping in simulation mode. Okay, send that ping again. Ping 10.0.0.1. As you can see, because PC1 is in the same VLAN, the same subnet, PC7 sends the frame directly to PC1. No need for intervLAN routing. Now let's go back to real-time mode and try to ping PC5 in VLAN 20. Ping 10.0.0.65. Okay, the ping works. Let's take a look in simulation mode. Ping 10.0.0.65. Notice that the ping has to travel to R1 first, before being sent back to switch 2, and then to PC5, and the reply follows the same path. Okay, back to real-time mode. And finally, we will ping PC3 in VLAN 20. Ping 10.0.0.1.29. Okay, the ping works. And once again, let's take a look at it in simulation mode. Ping 10.0.0.1.29. Once again, the ping must go to R1 first to be routed. Then goes to switch 2 and switch 1 before reaching PC3, and then it follows the same path back. Okay, that's all for this lab. Okay, let's move on to the Boseon NetSim preview. I've selected one lab here, Inter VLAN routing 1. Click on the lab, and you get a little preview, and then click on load lab. And here is the lab. There's the objective here, the lab topology. This is very much like the lab we just did. One router, two switches, and some PCs connected to each switch. There is a command summary, which shows you all of the commands you need to know to complete the lab. And these are all commands you already know. Incapsulation.1Q, to set the VLAN on a router sub interface. Some show commands, show Mac address table, show running config, show VLAN brief, and switch port commands, access VLAN switch port mode, switch port trunk encapsulation. And then next, the IP addresses on each device. So let's go to the lab tasks. There are three main tasks for this lab. Task one, configure the switch and PC hosts. Task two, configure sub interfaces. And task three, complete and verify connectivity. And each of these tasks has multiple sub tasks, multiple steps. So for this preview, let's just do task one. This involves configuring basic network connectivity on switch one, PC one, and PC two. So in this lab, PC one and PC two are connected to the same switch. But the user is belong to different departments within the company. So your task is to assign the two PC hosts to separate VLANs within the network. OK. So step one, verify the current IP configurations on PC one and PC two. I'm verified that they match the IP configurations listed in the IP addresses table. So this is the table with PC one and PC two's IP information. So to check the configuration on each PC, you first have to go into the CLI. You see by default, we are in router one CLI. To access the CLI of separate devices, here under devices, click on PC one, click on console. And let's open PC two, console. And also we'll be using switch one. So click on console here. OK. First, let's go to PC one. To check the IP configuration on a PC, use this command. IP config slash all. So here is the IP address. 192.168.100.2. That is correct. The subnet mask is correct. This is a slash 25 prefix length. And the default gateway is dot one, which is correct. And that happens to be the IP address of R1s, F00.10 sub interface. So PC ones, OK, let's check PC two. IP config slash all 192.168.100.130 is correct. Same slash 25 subnet mask. The default gateway is dot one, two, nine, which is correct. And this is the IP address on router ones dot 12 sub interface. OK, so that's step one. Step two, configure switch one with the appropriate hostname. Let's go to the CLI of switch one. You can see it has the default hostname of switch. So let's change that. Enable conft, hostname switch one. There you go. The hostname is changed to switch one. OK, each PC is a member of a different department. And belongs in a different VLAN. PC one belongs to VLAN 10. And PC two belongs to VLAN 12. Do VLANs 10 and 12 exist on switch one? So you can check that with the command you already know. Do show VLAN brief. You can see all ports are in, sorry about that, in VLAN 1 by default. And VLANs 10 and 12 do not exist. So we can go on to step four, which says if the VLANs do not already exist, create VLAN 10 and VLAN 12. Let's do that. VLAN 10. And then without exiting from here, we can go straight to VLAN 12, exit. And then hit the up arrow. There you go. Do show VLAN brief. And you can see both VLANs were created. VLAN 10 and VLAN 12. OK, next up, step five. There is no documentation present about your network. So you must learn which ports, PC one and PC two, are connected to on switch one, before adding each PC to the appropriate VLAN. How would you go about discovering which port each PC is connected to? So this might be a little bit of a challenge. I'm going to exit out of here. And then I'll go back to the PCs, PC one. So what you have to look for here is the physical address. Physical address. What is that? Well, it's the MAC address of this PC. So take note of these last four digits, three, five, three, eight. And now on switch one, let's check the MAC address table. Show MAC address table. Now notice here it's MAC hyphen address hyphen table. On some newer devices, you'll probably find it as show MAC space address hyphen table like this. Now let's see if this switch supports the command. And it does not. So invalid input. So on this switch, we will use the show MAC hyphen address hyphen table command. I think I mentioned that in one of my previous videos that you might find it with or without a hyphen. So we were looking for three, five, three, eight. And you can see the switch has learned it on port fast ethernet 0, three. So PC one is connected to fast ethernet 0, three. How about PC two? Here's the physical address. Take note of the last four digits again, 6059. That is fast ethernet 0, four. And just to check, let's look at the diagram up here. OK, so PC one, fast ethernet 0, three, PC two, fast ethernet 0, four. So we were correct. OK, so add V, PCs to the correct V lands. So conf T, PC one is connected to fast ethernet 0, three. So interface F03, switch port mode access, switch port access VLAN 10. OK, now fast ethernet 0, four. Switch port mode access, switch port access VLAN 12. OK, step seven on switch one, verify your configuration. Now I'll just get out of here back to privileged exec mode and do show VLAN brief. OK, in VLAN 10 we have fast ethernet 0, three, which is connected to PC one. And in VLAN 12 we have fast ethernet 0, four, which is connected to PC two. So our configurations are correct. OK, next issue a ping from PC one to PC two. Why does the ping fail? So we're expecting this to fail. But let's do the ping anyway. One, two, that one's x8, that one 100, that one 30. So these pings are going to fail. I'll just wait for a few to go through. OK, so why are these pings failing? So these two PCs are in separate VLANs. So they need something to do intervLAN routing for them. And that would be router one. But we haven't configured any intervLAN routing yet. So for example, on switch one, let's see if we even have a trunk interface configured here on fast ethernet 0, 1. Show interfaces trunk. No, we do not. You can see fast ethernet two is a trunk connected to switch two. But fast ethernet 0, 1 is not a trunk. How about on R1? Do we have any subinterfaces configured? Show IP interface brief. No, no subinterfaces configured. So router on a stick, our intervLAN routing is not configured. And that is why the pings failed. OK, so there are two more tasks. Configuring subinterfaces, complete and verify connectivity. I'll let you guys do those on your own. And if you ever have any trouble or want to check your solution down here, our complete lab solutions. So for task one, you can see the IP config all command we used. Configuring the host name. This is show VLAN. I use show VLAN brief, but show VLAN is OK also. Configuring the VLANs and everything we just did, looking at the physical address, the MAC address. OK, so once you're done the lab, click here, grade lab. Now we're not finished, so it's going to tell us that we did not complete the lab. We didn't do it correctly, but that's OK. There you go. You missed one or more commands in the lab. So you can see here on switch to PC1, 2, 3, 4, the configurations are fine. That's because we didn't have to do any configurations on these. But we're missing configurations on router 1 and switch 1. So these commands in red are commands that we missed. So we were going to set the host name on router 1, configure subinterfaces, how about on switch 1? Yeah, configuring fast Ethernet 01 as a trunk. OK, so that's all for today's NetSim preview. If you want to get a copy of NetSim and try this lab and many others on your own, follow the link in the description. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, an except bat or basic attention token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.