VIDEO 40: PortFast (STP Toolkit) | CCNA 200-301 Day 21 (part 1)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zqzppl4LOwk
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 17m 34s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Hi from Tokyo, Japan, and welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. In this section of our CCNA course, we'll cover the Spanning Tree Protocol Toolkit, a set of features that you can use to modify and enhance Spanning Tree Protocol. This first video starts with PortFast, a handy feature that lets a switch port skip the STP Listening and Learning States, and immediately start forwarding data when it's connected. Here's what we'll cover. This video and the next few will cover the STP Toolkit, starting with PortFast in this video, which allows switch ports connected to end hosts to immediately enter the STP Forwarding State, bypassing Listening and Learning. This lets the hosts start communicating over the network as soon as they connect. No need to wait. Cisco expects you to know four other features in the STP Toolkit as well, BPDU Guard, BPDU Filter, Root Guard, and Loop Guard. Feel free to read these descriptions if you want, but we'll cover them in the next few videos of the course, so let's get started with PortFast. First of all, what exactly is the problem that PortFast solves? Let's connect this PC and switch to find out. When an end host connects to a switch port like this, the port becomes up, up, but can't send or receive data yet. By up, up, I mean the status of the port in Show IP Interface Brief, as you can see here. The Switch's G01 interface is up, up, but any frames the PC tries to send are discarded by the switch. And why is that? Well, it's an STP designated port, but we'll take a total of 30 seconds before it enters the Forwarding State. That is, 15 seconds in the listening state, and 15 seconds in the learning state. This leads to a poor user experience. The user expects to be able to access the network immediately, but for some reason it doesn't work. The user probably doesn't even know STP exists. They don't have any reason to know it. They just know the internet doesn't work for 30 seconds when they connect their computer, and that's frustrating. And worst of all, this weight is totally unnecessary, because there is no risk of a layer to loop occurring between a switch and a PC. Loops can occur between switches because of how they flood frames, but PCs don't do that. Let's check out the process on a real switch. Notice after I connect the cable into port 1 on this Cisco Catalyst switch, the link light above it turns on. Each port on a switch has a light like this, called a link light, to indicate its status. The two blinking green lights on the bottom right indicate that those two ports are active and are sending and receiving data. But the link light for port 1, which I just connected to my PC, is blinking an amber color. This means the port is up and receiving data from my PC, but the data is blocked by STP. My PC can't access the network yet. Finally, after 30 seconds, the light turns green, meaning it is in the forwarding state and is ready to send and receive data. Now that we've seen the problem, let's see how port fast solves it. Once again, I'll connect this PC to the switch. When port fast is configured on a port, it immediately enters the forwarding state when connected to another device, when the port is enabled. So it bypasses listening and learning, and can send and receive data right away without waiting 30 seconds. This obviously provides a much better user experience. The user's device can immediately access the network. Let's see port fast in action on a real switch. This time I've enabled it on port 1 of my switch, so let's connect the cable. And as you can see, the link light turns green right away. The port is in the STP forwarding state and can send and receive data immediately. No more 30 second wait. So how can we configure port fast? It's quite simple, but there are two ways to do it. The first is in interface config mode, with the command spanning tree port fast. This enables port fast only on the individual interface. The interface you configure this command on. But you can also enable it in global config mode, with spanning tree port fast default. Instead of enabling port fast on an individual port, this enables port fast on all access ports. In most cases, this will enable port fast on all connections to end hosts, but not on connections to other switches. This is because connections between switches are almost always trunk links, since most modern lands use multiple VLANs. But connections to end hosts are almost always access links, since most hosts don't need to send and receive traffic in multiple VLANs. As we'll cover in a minute, it's very important that you don't enable port fast on ports that connect to other switches. Let's try that first method in the CLI. I entered interface config mode for G01 and used spanning tree port fast to enable port fast. When you enable port fast, you'll see this warning message. This is related to the point I just mentioned in the previous slide, so I'll read it out. Port fast should only be enabled on ports connected to a single host, connecting hubs, concentrators, switches, bridges, etc. to this interface when port fast is enabled can cause temporary bridging loops, use with caution. Basically, this means that port fast should not be configured on ports connected to switches or temporary loops can occur. The entire point of the listening and learning states is to make 100% sure there are no loops in the LAN before a port moves to the forwarding state. Port fast bypasses those states and makes the port start in the forwarding state. It can cause a temporary loop if you enable it on connections to other switches. So just remember that port fast shouldn't be enabled on ports that connect to other switches. Okay in addition to that warning message, another message is shown here. Port fast has been configured on Gigabit Ethernet 01, but will only have effect when the interface is in a non-trunking mode. So even if you configure spanning tree port fast on a trunk port, it won't be active. By default it only works on access ports. Okay, after configuring port fast on the port, I used show spanning tree interface G01 detail to confirm. Here's the command syntax. Show spanning tree interface, followed by the interface name, and then detail. And here's the output of the command. This is the line I highlighted. The port is in the port fast edge mode. This requires a bit of explanation. There are two kinds of port fast, edge and network. Port fast edge is the kind we are covering in this video. Port fast network is used for a feature called bridge assurance, which is not a CCNA topic, so don't worry about it. I just wanted to clarify the meaning of edge in this output. Next, let's try the second configuration method. Switching port fast by default in global config mode. I've expanded the example network a bit. Switch one and switch two are connected by their G00 and G01 ports, which are trunks, and their G02 and three ports are connected to hosts, so they are access ports. I'm only showing switch one CLI here, but on both switches I configured spanning tree port fast default. Just like before, a warning message appears. Let's read it. When this command enables port fast by default on all interfaces, you should now disable port fast explicitly on switched ports leading to hubs, switches and bridges, as they may create temporary bridging loops. Let me clarify the part I highlighted. It says all interfaces, but as I mentioned before, it only activates port fast on all access ports, not trunk ports. So this warning message is a bit misleading. Now if you want to disable port fast on a specific access port, after enabling it by default, you can use the command spanning tree port fast disable in interface config mode. You should do this if you connect two switches with an access link, but that's rare. Connections between switches are usually trunks. Okay, here's that same show command I used before, looking at the output for switch one's G02 interface, an access port. It says the port is in the port fast edge mode by default. So port fast has been enabled on these four ports, the access ports connected to end hosts. And what about the trunks connecting the switches? I used the same command for switch ones G01 interface, and it doesn't mention port fast anywhere. So port fast isn't enabled on the trunk ports. The key point to remember here is that when you enable port fast in global config mode, it is only activated on access ports, not trunk ports. We've covered how to configure port fast on access ports. Now let's cover the topic of port fast on trunk ports, because there are some situations where it's valid. The standard port fast configuration commands only enable port fast on access ports. Those are the commands we just covered, spanning tree port fast in interface config mode, and spanning tree port fast default in global config mode. But in some cases, you might want to enable port fast on a trunk port. The network diagram above shows two examples. First is a port connected to a virtualization server with virtual machines, VMs, and different VLANs. Virtualization is a CCNA topic, but we'll cover it later in the course. For now, just know that servers using virtualization often use trunk links to connect to switches, instead of access links like most end hosts. And the second example is a port connected to a router via router on a stick. As we covered in the VLAN section of the course, router on a stick is basically a trunk link between a switch and a router. A router doesn't flood frames like a switch, and it won't cause layer two loops. So you can configure port fast on interfaces connected to a router like this. So how do we actually configure port fast on a trunk? It can only be configured per port in interface config mode. The command is, SpendingTree, PortFast, trunk. Let's see an example in the CLI. The command shows the same message we saw before, warning that port fast shouldn't be enabled on ports connected to switches. And here's show SpendingTree interface detail, only showing the relevant line since there's no space. It says, the port is in port fast edge trunk mode. In most CCNA scenarios, you will only need to enable port fast on access ports. But just keep in mind that it can also be enabled on trunk ports. Finally, before we finish up, I want to briefly clarify port fast edge, which I mentioned earlier. To review, there are two port fast modes, port fast edge and port fast network. Port fast network isn't a CCNA topic, so we're covering port fast edge only. In modern Cisco switches, if you use the commands covered in this lecture, the device will automatically add the edge keyword to the configuration. So for example, if you configure SpendingTree port fast on port, in the running config, it will become SpendingTree port fast edge. If you configure SpendingTree port fast trunk, it will become SpendingTree port fast edge trunk. And if you configure SpendingTree port fast default, it will become SpendingTree port Fast Edge default in the running config. You can use either version of the commands when configuring portfast. It doesn't matter. The end result is the same. Edge will always be added in the configuration. As you probably guessed, if you want to configure portfast network instead of edge, you have to specify the network keyword in the commands, like SpanningTree portfast network. I also mentioned the command SpanningTree portfast disable before, but just note that it doesn't use the edge keyword. It's an exception. OK, let's verify the edge keyword in the CLI. I configured SpanningTree portfast on Switch1's G01 interface. I then used ShowRendingConfig interface G01. This is a handy command. You can use it to view the running config for just the specified interface, instead of the device's entire running config. But unfortunately, it doesn't work in packet tracer. Anyway, here is the interfaces config. Notice that the Switch automatically added the edge keyword to the end of the command, even though I only configured SpanningTree portfast. OK, to summarize, just be aware that the type of portfast covered in the CCNA, the one we're talking about in this video, is called portfastedge. For the CCNA exam, you should probably be aware of both versions of these commands, with and without edge. Their effect is the same. But keep in mind that if you're doing labs in packet tracer, the current version doesn't support the edge keyword. So don't be confused if you try it in packet tracer and it doesn't work. Here's a summary of the main points covered in this video. When a host connects to a Switch port, by default it takes 30 seconds before the port can send or receive data. And this can be frustrating for users who don't know why they can't connect. Portfast allows a Switch port to immediately enter the STP forwarding state, by passing listening and learning. So the connected host can access the network right away, making a much better experience for the user. Portfast can be configured in two ways. The first is in interface config mode, with the SpanningTree portfast command, optionally with the edge keyword. This enables portfast only on the individual interface, and is only active when the interface is in access mode, not trunk mode. The second option is in global config mode, with SpanningTree portfast default, which enables portfast on all access ports. If necessary, you can then disable it on specific ports, with SpanningTree portfast disable. Just remember that portfast should not be configured on ports connected to a Switch, as it can cause temporary loops. It should only be used on ports connected to end hosts, or maybe a router. And keep in mind, you can also configure portfast on a trunk port, with SpanningTree portfast trunk. This can be useful for a router on a stick, or when connecting to a virtualization server, with VMs in different VLANs. And that's all for this video about portfast. I hope it was helpful. Thanks for watching. Before finishing this video, let me thank my JCNP level channel members, who support me through YouTube channel membership. To become a member, please click the join button under the video. Thanks to Yonatan Makara, Velva Jacob, George, Nassir Chaudhary, Gustavo Masado, Marcel Lord, Dragos Honea, Zikib Shah, Mayor Salman, Vitaus 194, Mark Jackson, Bold 1C1U, Gerald Guillaume, Fristos 1207, Hector Hernandez, Arpad Coneves 5 feet, Oad, Daniel Brown, Jose Alvarez, Hussein Yavuz, Samuel Tavarez, Roger Bratzeth, Kevin Hayes, Brian Grant, Georgi Gemmejev, Katz IV Life, Adelson Pereira, Farad 69, Madmark 50484, Alexandr Stratan, Hiyago Bicaljo, DMJ2, Lucian Stoicciatoju, Kurt Nell, Steve Cox, Jasper Yim, Pedro Hartman, Tricky Mickey 123456, Ivano Capuano, Jefferson Steelflex, Toxic, Wilmer Romero, Sinan Sarisinar, Daniel Andrade, Drogos George, Hyro Francisco, Philippi Ivanovich, Trevor Goldman, Sunny Ida Gu, Jeffrey C, Edificair, Demetro Leis, Mikhail Chapski, Hemant Jabalpuri, Doryush D, Ferris Alzaharani, Juan Morales, Gonzalo Nicolas, Dumb Soul, Christine Schubert, Julio Maya, Agraso, Comlan Capedemi, Hashem Rodef, Ananda Biancar, Adakola Ismail Salami, Clyde Encorrobindo, Orlando Flores, Adrian Martinez, Prashant M. GG7, Rohan Surti, Tobbe Heddin, Arturo Ray Mejia, Vic, MDS, Electronarzegia, Raymond Kirby, G. Gant, Henrietta Sauer, Yusuf Tassatin, and Pablo Goto. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. Thanks to you and my other supporters, I am able to make these videos and release them for free on YouTube, so I really appreciate the support. Another great way to support the channel is to like the video, leave a comment, subscribe, and most importantly, share this video with others. So if this video was helpful, I'd appreciate it if you did any of those. Thanks for watching.