VIDEO 43: Loop Guard (STP Toolkit) | CCNA 200-301 Day 21 (part 4)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uJ5_Klha0ig
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 18m 49s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Hello and welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. In this video we'll cover one more feature in the STP toolkit, LoopGuard, which basically acts as an extra line of defense against layer two loops. Now the entire point of spanning tree protocol is to prevent loops, that's why we use it. So what's the role of LoopGuard? Well, that's what we'll cover in this video. In the previous few videos, we covered these four features of the STP toolkit. Portfast, BPDU Guard, BPDU Filter and RootGuard. Now we're moving on to LoopGuard, which protects the network from loops by disabling a port if it unexpectedly stops receiving BPDUs, ensuring it does not mistakenly enter the forwarding state. There are a few situations where this might happen, such as a software bug on one switch that stops it from sending BPDUs. And in this video, we'll look at one specific scenario, a unidirectional link. So we've got these two switches, switch one and switch two, and let's connect them together. Under normal circumstances, this is a bi-directional link, meaning switch one can transmit data to switch two, and switch two can transmit data to switch one. But a unidirectional link is a network link where data transmission occurs in only one direction. For example, switch one can send frames to switch two, but switch two can't send frames to switch one. This is obviously not a desirable situation, and is typically caused by a layer one issue, some physical problem with the hardware, preventing data from flowing in one direction. For example, damaged cables could cause this, or faulty connectors or transceivers, such as the SFP, small form factor pluggable transceivers, used for fiber optic connections. In fact, unidirectional links are more common with fiber optic cables than copper UTP cables. Why is that? Let's see. As we covered back in the beginning of the course, fiber optic connections typically use two separate fibers, as I've changed the diagram above to show. The TX transmission side of switch one connects to the RX reception side of switch two, and the TX side of switch two connects to the RX side of switch one. Although they are separate fibers, these two fibers are considered one cable, connecting one interface on switch one to one interface on switch two, and allowing both of them to send and receive data. The problem is that if one fiber is damaged, it can disrupt data flow in one direction, while the other remains unaffected. And on top of that, fiber optic cables are simply more vulnerable to physical damage than copper UTP cables. If you bend a fiber cable too far, you'll hear a small snap, and then the cable is dead, you won't be able to use it. Now, for a fiber optic interface to be up up, both fibers must be connected and functional. For example, look at this connection between two switches. They're connected by a fiber optic cable, and the two fibers are connected on both sides, so the link lights are green. So that's what a functional fiber optic connection looks like. If there is a problem with either fiber, the devices should be able to detect it and disable their interfaces. So if you disconnect or cut this fiber, switch one and switch two should detect it and disable their interfaces. This doesn't result in a unidirectional link. The link is disabled entirely. Let's take a look at that connection again. With one fiber disconnected, the link lights are now off, and after damaging the fiber, even if I connect it, the link lights remain off. But not all physical problems preventing communication will be detected. And if the devices fail to detect the physical problem, it could result in a unidirectional link. If there is a problem on one of these fibers that prevents data transmission, but the devices don't detect it, their interfaces will remain up up, and now we have a unidirectional link. Switch one can transmit data to switch two, but data that switch two transmits can't reach switch one. They both think the connection is up and running, but actually it only works one way. So what's the problem with a unidirectional link? Before we cover loop guard, let's see the problem it solves. Loop guard doesn't prevent unidirectional links, but it can protect against the negative effect that a unidirectional link has on STP. As you know by now, BPDUs originate from the root bridge and are forwarded out of designated ports like this every two seconds. And these BPDUs are how the switches share information with each other to determine the STP topology, which interfaces should be forwarding, and which interfaces should be blocking. In this network, switch three G zero one is a non-designated port because it receives superior BPDUs from switch two. To keep the diagram simple, I didn't include any details, but this is either because switch two has a superior root cost or bridge ID compared to switch three. But if the switch two switch three link becomes unidirectional and switch two's BPDUs can't reach switch three, what will happen? Let's assume there's a physical issue that prevents switch two's frames from reaching switch three, but doesn't cause the switches to actually disable their G zero one interfaces. The switches don't detect the underlying physical issue. Switch three, which no longer receives BPDUs from switch two, will assume there is no more loop in the LAN. After the max-age timer expires, switch three G zero one will become a designated port and start forwarding BPDUs to switch two. And because switch three's BPDUs are inferior to switch two's, switch two simply ignore switch three's BPDUs. So switch two G zero one and switch three G zero one are both in the forwarding state, meaning we have a loop from switch one to switch three to switch two. Let's see how that loop works. If switch one receives a broadcast frame on one of its other interfaces, it will flood the frame towards switch two and switch three. The frame flooded to switch two won't loop because of the unidirectional link. Switch two's frames can't reach switch three, but the frame flooded to switch three will loop around the three switches like this. Each switch that receives it will flood it repeatedly. So that's the problem with a unidirectional link in a LAN using STP. Switch three G zero one stops receiving BPDUs, thinks it should become a designated port and start forwarding frames and then causes a loop. It would be better if the hardware issue caused the link to go down entirely. In that case, switch two and switch three would both disable their G zero one ports and there would be no loop. But how can we deal with a situation like this where a hardware issue causes a unidirectional link? You guessed it, the answer is loop guard. So finally, let's see how loop guard solves this problem. As I said before, loop guard doesn't prevent physical unidirectional links, but provides a mechanism to detect unidirectional links and then prevent layer two loops. When a loop guard enabled ports max-age timer counts down to zero, it doesn't become a designated port and start transitioning to the forwarding state. Instead, it enters the broken loop inconsistent state. That probably sounds familiar. Like the broken root inconsistent state, triggered by a root guard violation, this blocks the port. Note that in both cases, whether it's root guard or loop guard, the port remains up up. So the port isn't actually shut down, it's just that STP blocks it. So let's say loop guard is enabled on switch three G zero one and the switch two switch three link is unidirectional, preventing switch two's frames from reaching switch three. The max-age timer on switch three G zero one starts counting down. Normally, when it reaches zero, it will become a designated port and start transitioning to the forwarding state. But when loop guard is enabled, it enters the broken state, preventing a layer two loop from occurring. And like root guard, recovery is automatic. If the physical issue is solved and the broken port starts receiving BPDUs again, it will be automatically reenabled. So how can we configure loop guard? Like the other features in the STP toolkit, the actual configurations are simple. It can be enabled in two ways. The first is purport with spanning tree guard loop in interface config mode. The second is by default in global config mode with spanning tree loop guard default. This enables loop guard on all ports by default. And then you can use spanning tree guard none in interface config mode to disable it on specific ports if needed. Loop guard should typically be activated on any ports that aren't designated, root and non-designated ports. In other words, ports that are supposed to receive BPDUs from designated ports. Then if they stop receiving BPDUs, loop guard will disable them to prevent loops. Now let's take a look at loop guard in the CLI. I enabled loop guard on switch3's G01 port with spanning tree guard loop. In the output of show spanning tree interface detail, it says loop guard is enabled on the port. So that's it. It just takes that one command to enable loop guard on a port. But before we see it in action, let's also see how it looks when you enable it by default. So this time, instead of enabling it in interface config mode, I used spanning tree loop guard default to enable it in global config mode. Then the output of this command is basically the same, but it says by default at the end. Okay, now let's see what happens when loop guard blocks a port. Currently, all links are operational and switch3G01 is receiving BPDUs from switch2. But what if the link connecting them becomes unidirectional? Well, this message is shown in the CLI. Loop guard blocking port gigabit ethernet01. And in the output of show spanning tree, G01 status is BKN and it also says loop ink. As you probably guessed, BKN means broken and loop ink means loop inconsistent. The port is blocked because it stopped receiving BPDUs. Maybe there's a sharp bend in one of the fibers that degraded the signal, preventing switch2's BPDUs from reaching switch3. But then, perhaps someone adjusts the cable and the data starts flowing again. And loop guard automatically unblocks the port because it starts receiving BPDUs again from switch2. As you can see here, G01 status is now blocking, not a broken, and it doesn't say loop inconsistent anymore. So like root guard, loop guard automatically re-enables a port if the problem is fixed. You don't have to issue any commands to re-enable the port. I've added another switch to this LAN, one that is not your switch. You don't have direct control over its configuration. Before we wrap up this video, let me point out something about loop guard and root guard. These two features are mutually exclusive, and by that I mean they can't be enabled on the same port at the same time. And that's because they basically serve opposite purposes. Root guard is meant to prevent designated ports from becoming root ports. If a root guard enabled designated port starts receiving superior BPDUs, it will be blocked. So looking at switch3 in the network above, G00 and G01 should use loop guard, and G02 should use root guard. It doesn't make sense to configure the opposite. For example, switch3 G00 and G01 are supposed to receive BPDUs from switch1 and switch2. So if you want to use loop guard, you can use loop guard, and loop guard is meant to prevent non-designated or root ports from becoming designated ports. Are supposed to receive BPDUs from switch1 and switch2. If you configure root guard on them, they'll both be blocked, cutting off communication in the LAN. Okay, so just remember that you can't enable both on an interface at the same time. How does that affect the configurations? If loop guard is configured on a port, with spanning tree guard loop, and you then configure root guard with spanning tree guard root, loop guard will be disabled on the port. The root guard command will replace it, and vice versa. If root guard is enabled on a port, and you then configure loop guard, root guard will be disabled. And if loop guard is enabled by default in global config mode, and you then configure root guard on a port, loop guard will be disabled on the port. In other words, the more specific configuration takes effect. The interface command applies only to one interface. It's more specific than the global command, so the interface command takes effect. This is true for many features in iOS. For example, it's the same for a portfast, BPDU guard, and BPDU filter. If you enable portfast by default in global config mode, but then disable it on a specific interface, the interface command takes effect. Remember that about iOS commands. Usually, the more specific command takes effect over the less specific command. Okay, let's summarize loop guard. Its purpose is to protect the network by blocking a port if it unexpectedly stops receiving BPDUs. This could happen if, for example, there is a software bug preventing a switch from sending BPDUs. Or if there is a hardware issue, causing a unidirectional link. A unidirectional link is a network link where data transmission occurs in only one direction. A normal link should be bi-directional, allowing communication in both directions. A unidirectional link is typically caused by layer 1 issues on fiber optic cables. That's the most common scenario. If the connected devices don't detect the issue and disable their interfaces, it can result in a unidirectional link. This prevents BPDUs from reaching the neighboring switch. And if a root or non-designated port stops receiving BPDUs, it will become a designated port, potentially causing a layer to loop. Loop guard's role is to protect against this. If a loop guard enabled port stops receiving BPDUs, it enters the broken loop inconsistent state, effectively disabling the port. But if it starts receiving BPDUs again, it will be automatically re-enabled. There are two ways to configure it. The first is per port with spanning tree guard loop in interface config mode. The second is by default, with spanning tree loop guard default in global config mode. This enables it on all ports. But you can then use spanning tree guard none to disable it on specific ports if needed. It's similar to enabling portfast, BPDU guard, or BPDU filter by default, and then disabling them on individual ports. Final point, loop guard and root guard are mutually exclusive, so they can't be active on the same port at the same time. So if loop guard is configured on a port, and you then configure root guard, loop guard will be disabled and vice versa. And if loop guard is enabled by default, and you configure root guard on a port, loop guard will be disabled on the port. Only one can be active at a time on each port. Okay, that's all for this video on loop guard. I hope it was helpful. Thanks for watching. Before finishing this video, let me thank my JCNP level channel members, who support me through YouTube channel membership. To become a member, please click the join button under the video. Thanks to Jonathan Makara, Velva Jacob, George, Nassir Chaudhary, Gustavo Masato, Marcel Lord, Drugos Hernandez, Keb Shah, Mayor Salman, Vitalis 194, Mark Jackson, Bold 111U, Gerald Guillaume, Fristus 1207, Hector Hernandez, Arpad Kunives, 5 feet, Oad, Daniel Brown, Jose Alvarez, Hussein Yavuz, Samuel Tabarez, Roger Bratzeth, Kevin Hayes, Brian Grant, Giorgi Gemmejev, Cats for Life, Adelson Pereira, Farad 69, Mad Mark 50484, Alexandru Strata, Thiago Bicaljo, DMJ2, Lucien Stoicitou, Kurt Nell, Steve Cox, Jasper Yim, Pedro Hartman, Tricky Mickey 123456, Ivano Capuano, Jefferson Steele Flex, Toxic, Wilmer Romero, Sinan Sarisinar, Daniel Andrade, Drugos George, Hyro Francisco, Philippi Ovanovitch, Trevor Goldman, Sani Idigu, Jeffrey C, Edificair, Demetro Leis, Mikhail Chapski, Hemant Jabopuri, Dariyushd, Juan Morales, Gonzalo Niko Las, Dumb Soul, Christine Schubert, Julio Maya, Agrasso, Comlan Capetemi, Hashem Rodef, Anand Abiancar, Adakola Ismail Salami, Clyde Mkoro Bindo, Orlando Flores, Adrian Martinez, MD Daniel Wits, Poshant M, Ray Enriquez, GG7, Tobbe Hedin, Arturo Ray Mahia, Vic Brandon Biers, MDS, Electronar Zedja, Raymond Kirby, G. Grant, Henrietta Sauer, Yusuf Tassatin, Pablo Goto, Omar Abdel Fata, Yukshika, Furkan Yalson, Uma Shankar Sharma, Philip Kratin, Vishal Bansal, and 12062 Alfred. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. Thanks to you and my other supporters, I am able to make these videos and release them for free on YouTube, so I really appreciate the support. Another great way to support the channel is to like the video, leave a comment, subscribe, and most importantly, share this video with others. So if this video was helpful, I'd appreciate it if you did any of those. Thanks for watching.