VIDEO 48: Free CCNA | Configuring EtherChannel | Day 23 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8gKF2fMMjA8
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 25m 3s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course, so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up a Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better. And it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. Watch until the end of this video. We'll take a look at a lab from NetSim. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we will configure Ether channel between switches in this network. All of the connections between these switches have redundant links. However, because of spanning tree protocol, only one link will be active at a time. The inactive link will act as a backup, which is good, but we would prefer if both could be forwarding at the same time to increase the potential bandwidth for the connections. We will configure layer 2 ether channels between the access layer switches and the distribution layer switches. And then we will configure a layer 3 ether channel between the distribution layer switches. Let's get started with step 1. I'll go on A switch 1 first. Enable. And first let's check the spanning tree situation. Show spanning tree. So, G01 connected to D switch 1 is the root port. However, G02 is an alternate port. It won't forward or receive any frames, so it's just acting as a backup. If we configure this connection with D switch 1 as an ether channel, we shouldn't see these two interfaces here. They'll be replaced with the port channel interface, which should be the new root port, and we'll forward traffic using both physical interfaces. So let's do that. Enter global config mode, conf t. Let's configure both interfaces together. Interface range, G01 to 2. To configure ether channel, use the channel group command. Channel group 1, mode. Now which options do we have? Step 1 instructs us to use LACP so we can use active or passive modes. If we use passive mode, we have to ensure that D switch 1 side is in active mode, or that ether channel won't form. But let's just go with active on both sides. Active. Okay, we're also instructed to configure it as a trunk. To do so, let's configure the port channel interface that was created. This P01, switch port mode trunk. Okay, so because D switch 1's port channel isn't configured yet, we won't see this trunk in show interfaces trunk. But let's just check the running config to confirm. Do show run. So you can see that the port channel 1 interface was created, and if we scroll down to G01 and G02, you can see that the switch port mode trunk command we applied to the port channel was also applied to them. Let's also check the status of the ether channel. You'll see one of the status flags I didn't show in the lecture video. Do show ether channel summary. So the port channel interface itself is SD, meaning layer 2 and down. Now look at the member ports. They have the flag i. What does that mean? It means stand alone. So they are configured to be part of an ether channel, but because of some problem, they are acting as stand alone, individual ports. Why is that? It's because we haven't configured D switch 1 yet. So next up, let's configure D switch 1 side. Enable. Conf T. The configuration will be the same as on A switch 1. Interface range. G103 to 4. No group 1 mode active. Passive would work here as well, since A switch 1 side is configured as active. Now let's configure the port channel as a trunk. Interface P01. Switch port mode trunk. As you can see, this model of switch supports both ISL and .1Q trunk encapsulations. So we have to set the encapsulation first. Switch port trunk encapsulation.1Q. Switch port mode trunk. Okay, now the ether channel should be up. Let's check. Do show ether channel summary. The port channel interface has the flags SU, meaning layer 2 and in use. These are the flags we want to see. For the member ports, the flag is P, meaning bundled in the port channel. This is also what we want to see. Let's check the trunk interfaces. Do show interface trunk. Okay, port channel 1 properly became a trunk. Before configuring the next ether channel, I'll go back to A switch 1 to see if the output of show spanning tree is different. Do show spanning tree. As I said, we no longer see G01 and G02 in the output. Just port channel 1, which is the root port. F01 and 2 are designated because they are connected to end hosts. Next up is the ether channel between A switch 2 and D switch 2. The configurations will be almost identical to the ones we just did, except instead of active mode, we'll use desirable, which is the P-A-G-P equivalent. Remember, P-A-G-P has desirable and auto modes, whereas LACP has active and passive. So I'll quickly run through the configurations, first on A switch 2. Enable, Conf T, Interface Range, G01 to 2. Channel group 1 mode. Now here is the only difference, desirable. So the port channel interface was created. Now let's configure it. This P01, switch port mode trunk. That's A switch 2 side. Next up, D switch 2. Enable, Conf T, Interface Range, G103 to 4. Channel group 1 mode desirable. Next up, make the port channel a trunk. Interface P01. This is the same model of switch as D switch 1, so we have to set the encapsulation. Switch port trunk encapsulation dot 1Q. Switch port mode trunk. Okay, let's check if it's up. Do show ether channel summary. Here are the flags we want to see. SU for the port channel and P for the member interfaces. Next up, let's configure the layer 3 port channel connecting D switch 1 and D switch 2. We're already on D switch 2, so let's start here. Interface Range, G101 to 2. So first you should make these routed ports with the command no switch port. Now when you make the channel group, the port channel interface will automatically be layer 3. We already use channel group 1 for the connections to the access switches. So let's use channel group 2. Channel group 2 mode on. I used on because the instructions say to use static ether channel. Now all we have to do is configure an IP address on the port channel. Interface P02, IP address 10.0.0.2 255.255.255.252. Okay, that's it. Let's do the same on D switch 1. This range, G101 to 2. No switch port. Channel group 2 mode on. Interface P02, IP address 10.0.0.1 255.255.255.252. Okay, let's take a look at the status. Do show ether channel summary. Notice that the flags are now RU, meaning layer 3, and in use. And the member interfaces once again display P, which is what we want to see. Let's try a ping to D switch 2's port channel interface. Do ping 10.0.0.2. Okay, looks good. Next up we are supposed to configure static routes so the PCs can reach server 1. So let's check the current routing table. Do show IP route. There is no routing table. Why is that? Well for a multi layer switch to build a routing table, we need to enable IP routing. D switch 1 was able to ping D switch 2 because it's directly connected. But if we don't enable IP routing, even if we configure static routes, the switches still won't build a routing table. So let's enable IP routing and configure the route here on D switch 1. Exit IP routing. Now let's check the table. Do show IP route. So these routes we already have for the VLAN1SVI, which IP configured, and the port channel 2 interface we just configured. Let's configure a static route to server 1 subnet. IP route 172.16.2.0 255.255.255.0 and the next top is 10.0.0.2. Let's check. Do show IP route. Okay, it was added to the table. Next I'll do the same on D switch 2. Exit IP routing. And I'll configure a route to the PC's subnet. IP route 172.16.1.0 255.255.255.0 and the next top is 10.0.0.1. Let's check the table. Do show IP route. Okay, looks like we have all of the routes we need. So let's try a ping from PC1 to server 1. PC1's default gateway is the SVI on D switch 1. And then D switch 1 will route it over its layer 3 port channel to D switch 2, which will forward it to server 1. So let's try the ping. Ping 172.16.2.1. So I've said this a few times before, but when you first ping, you'll probably have a few timeouts. This is because the ARP process needs to complete. But after that, they should all go through, like this. Okay, next up we are asked to check the default ether channel load balancing method used on each switch. The access switches are the same model, and the distribution switches are both the same model too. So I'll just check A switch 1 and D switch 1. A switch 1 first. To check the load balancing method, use this command. Do show ether channel load balance. So the default is source mac address. All frames from the same source mac address will always use the same member interface of the ether channel. While we're on A switch 1, I'll do step 6 as well, which is to set this to source and destination IP address. Exit. Okay, the show command uses ether channel. But to configure the load balancing method, we use this command, port channel load balance, source destination IP. Let's check again. Do show ether channel load balance. Okay, it has me changed. I'll go on A switch 2 and do the same now. Exit. Port channel load balance, source destination IP. And let's confirm. Do show ether channel load balance. Okay, looks good. Finally, let's check the load balancing method on D switch 1. Do show ether channel load balance. Okay, the default on this model is the same as the access switches, source mac address. So let's change it. Port channel load balance, source destination IP. And confirm once more. Do show ether channel load balance. Okay, it was changed. Now I'll hop back on to D switch 2 and do the same configuration. Port channel load balance, source destination IP. And then confirm. Do show ether channel load balance. Looks good. So in today's lab, we configured layer 2 and layer 3 ether channels using LACP, PAGP, and static ether channel. We also configured the ether channel load balancing method to use the source and destination IP addresses to determine which interface should be used instead of the default, which was the source mac address only. That's all for this lab. Next, let's take a look at a lab in Boson NetSim for CCNA. Okay, for today's Boson NetSim lab preview, we're doing this lab layer 2 ether channel. There are three labs about ether channel in NetSim for CCNA. This one here, ether channel negotiation protocols, LACP, layer 2 ether channel, and layer 3 ether channel. Let's do layer 2 ether channel. Click on lab instructions and this is the diagram. So you can see there are many opportunities to use ether channel in this network. All of these switches have redundant links connecting them. These are the commands you need to know. You do know all of these commands already, except this one here, show CDP neighbors. I'll show you that in a minute. And here are the tasks. There are three main tasks. Task one, plan ether channel configurations with 10 steps. Task two, review initial configurations with 12 steps and then task three, verify configurations. So for this preview, we'll just do task one. So we won't actually do any configurations. We're going to plan the ether channel configurations that you implement in task two. So this task involves planning layer 2 ether channel configurations. You'll be creating a port channel between D-switch one and D-switch two in this lab. Type one, determine the number of links that can be configured as part of the port channel group between D-switch one and D-switch two. Okay, so looks like two links, five and six. Now what are the actual interface IDs of these interfaces? Let's check. So I will show you that show CDP neighbors command here on D-switch one. Enable, show CDP neighbors. So CDP is Cisco Discovery Protocol. It's a Cisco proprietary protocol that is used to gather information about connected devices. So when I enter this command here on D-switch one, we'll get some basic information about all of these switches it's connected to. There we go. So D-switch two is here. And notice under local interface, I chose fast ethernet five and six. So those are these two interfaces here. And also here under port ID, these are the interface IDs on the neighboring device. So fast ethernet five on D-switch one is connected to fast ethernet five on D-switch two. Fast ethernet six on D-switch one is connected to fast ethernet six on D-switch two. Okay, so that's step one. Step two, verify the line and protocol states of each interface. This is referring to those two end columns in the show IP interface brief command. Show IP interface brief. I hear status and protocol. So they are up and up, no problems. Observe the trunk state of each port. Okay. So interfaces trunk. So fast ethernet five and six are both desirable. They are using ISL, interesting, not dot one Q, but they are trunking. Looks like all VLANs are allowed. Default only VLAN one exists by default. And yeah, looks generally default except that ISL encapsulation. Because it's desirable, it's using DTP. So I guess the encapsulation was also automatically negotiated to be ISL. Let's check that out on D-switch two also. Show interfaces trunk. Same, it is also using ISL for fast ethernet five and six. Okay. Each port is configured to be a member of a channel group. Must be configured the same way in order for the port channel to operate correctly. Verify that the interfaces are configured correctly. Okay, I'll go back to D-switch one. Let's just check show running configure. Okay, there is no configuration on fast ethernet five and six. How about D-switch two? Show running config. Same here. So that should be no problem. Okay, step five. What command can you issue to configure an interface to be a member of a port channel group? That is this command. I'm not actually going to configure it, but it's the channel group command. Channel group one, mode, and then either active or passive for LACP, desirable or auto for PAGP or on for static ether channel. Okay, observe spanning to output for VLAN one. Okay, let's do that first on D-switch one. Show spanning tree. I think only VLAN one exists, so we could just do show spanning tree, but let's filter it anyway. Oh, so D-switch one looks like it is the root port. All interfaces have a designated role. And it says that here. This bridge is the root. How about D-switch two? Okay, first, spanning tree quiz. Which of D-switch two's ports will be the root port? Fast ethernet five or six? So they both have the same root cost. 19. They're both directly connected here with the cost of 19. The neighboring switch ID is the same. They're both connected D-switch one. So the last tie-baker is the neighboring switch is port ID, the lower port ID. So that is fast ethernet five here. So I think D-switch two's, fast ethernet five should be the root port. Let's see if I'm correct. Show spanning tree VLAN one. And I was correct. There we go. Okay, next. Seven. In this lab, how much bandwidth is available through the two links between D-switch one and D-switch two? So it's fast ethernet, so it should be 200 megabits per second. So interface F-0, five has here that is 100,000 kilobits. So that's 100 megabits. And fast ethernet zero six should be the same. Yep, 100,000 kilobits. Okay, so when you combine those two together, the virtual port channel interface should have a bandwidth of 200,000 kilobits, 200 megabits or megabits. Okay, so that was step seven, step eight. Why is the full amount of bandwidth not available on the link between fast ethernet five and six? Why is that? Well, that's because fast ethernet six is blocking because of spanning tree. How does ether channel increase the amount of available bandwidth between D-switch one and D-switch two? Because it combines them to form a single logical interface. I just showed you that in the lecture video. So number 10, how many switch ports can be configured to be a member of a port channel group? So up to eight can be active at any one time. But if you use LACP, actually 16 can be configured, but only up to eight will be active, and then the remaining up to eight will be standby ports, ready to take over if one of the active ports fails. Okay, so there's task one. Just a quick look at task two, what kind of things you do. Determine the number of links that can be configured as part of the port channel group. Here we go, configure the interfaces as members of channel group one using on mode. Verify the active trunk link exists on the port channel one interface of D-switch one and D-switch two. Verify the correct amount of bandwidth, as I said 200 megabits per second is available between D-switch one and D-switch two, and then finally verify your ether channel configuration. So if you ever have any trouble, you can check the lab solutions down here. As you can see, it is quite lengthy and detailed and gives quite a lot of good information. It's another great study resource. Even if you don't have any trouble, I recommend reading through here after you finish the lab. Okay, and you can also grade the lab by clicking up here. Now, I of course didn't finish the lab, so it says here. You missed one or more commands in the lab, but if you check the device configurations, it'll show you which commands you missed. If you put in some extra commands that you don't need, they will be highlighted in blue and a great lab for you. So I think BoseonetsinforCcNA is a great study resource. It's got a huge catalog of in-depth labs to help you practice your skills and really test your knowledge. If you want to get a copy of Boseonetsin, please follow the link in the video description. Before closing out the video, I want to take a minute to thank my JCNP level channel members. Thank you to FunnyDart, Joshua, Scott, Alexa, Hassan, Gerard, Tb, Vikram, Joyce, Marik, Samil, Velvijaykum, Seymode, Johan, Mark, Miguel, Yusif, Kony, Boseon, CD, Magrathia, Devon, Chalzetta, Lito, Yonatan, Mike, Alexander, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced the name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. One of you is still displaying as ChannelFailedLoad. If this is you, please let me know and I'll see if YouTube can fix it. Thank you once again for your support. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.