VIDEO 54: Free CCNA | Configuring OSPF (1) | Day 26 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LeLRWjfylcs
CCNA Domain: 3-IP_Connectivity
Duration: 22m 7s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Bosons NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator-like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we'll do some basic OSPF configurations in this small network. This is very similar to day 25's lab, EIGRP configuration, with a few small differences. Let's get started. First of all, before recording this video, I already completed step one. I want you to get some extra practice with the basics like configuring host names and IP addresses, but at this point in the course, I don't think there's any need to record myself doing it. So, first up, I'll do steps 2 and 3 on each router. Step 2 is to configure a loopback interface on each router. As I have explained before, a loopback interface is a virtual interface in the router. It's not a physical interface. I'll give a brief overview of them in one of these OSPF videos, but basically they are useful in that they can always be in an up-up state, unlike physical interfaces, which can go down due to hardware failures, etc. Then step 3 is to do some basic OSPF configurations on each router. I'll start on R4 and then work toward R1. First enter privileged exec mode with enable. Then, conf T. Let's configure that loopback interface. Interface L0. Notice these messages indicating that the interface has come up as soon as I create the interface. IP address 4.4.4.4 255.255.255.255.255. Let me check that it was created. Do show IP interface brief. There it is, and the IP address is 4.4.4.4. By the way, if you really want to make sure the subnet mask is correctly configured, you need to use a different command. Because as you can see, the subnet mask is not displayed in the output of show IP interface brief. So let's use this command instead. Do show interface L0. Look here. Internet address is 4.4.4.4.4. Slash 32. I like using show IP interface brief for a quick look at interfaces, but sometimes you might have to use other commands. OK, now let's configure OSPF. Router OSPF. And I'll use a process ID of 4. Remember what I said in the lecture video. This process ID is only significant to the local router. The other routers don't care about it. Just to show that, I'll use a different process ID on each router. And you will see that they still become OSPF neighbors. Next up, let's activate OSPF on R4's interfaces. I think I showed you this trick in the EIGRP lab. But if you want to activate OSPF on all interfaces at once, you can do this. Network O.O.O.O.255.255.255.255.255. Area 0. That's configuring a range of O.O.O.O.O. Slash O, which includes all IPv4 addresses. Remember that the network command uses a wildcard mask. So 255.255.255.255 is like a subnet mask of O.O.O.O.O. So OSPF is enabled on all interfaces. In real networks, it's recommended that you be more precise about which interfaces you activate OSPF on. I just wanted to show you that little trick for quickly setting up OSPF in labs. Now we are also instructed to configure passive interfaces where appropriate. F10 and F20 are connected to routers, so we shouldn't make them passive. But G00 should be passive. Passive interface G00. Not only G00, but loopback 0 also. Routers will send OSPF hello messages on loopback interfaces, even though they are connected to nothing. So passive interface L0. I'll take a look at some OSPF show commands when we get to R1. But for now, let me quickly go through the configurations on R3 and R2. R3 next. Enable. Conf T. Interface L0. IP address 3.3.3.3.3.255.255.255.255. Now let's configure OSPF. Router OSPF. And this time a process ID of 3. Let's try another way of enabling OSPF on each interface, specifying the exact IP address with a slash 32 mask. First up F10. Network 10.0.13.2.0.0.0.0.0. Area 0. Next F20. Network 10.0.34.1.0.0.0. Area 0. Finally loopback 0. Network 3.3.3.3.0.0.0.0.0.0. Area 0. Here on R3 there's only one interface we need to make a passive interface loopback 0. Passive interface L0. Okay that's all for R3. Next up I'll configure R2. Enable. Conf T. Interface L0. IP address 2.2.2.2.255.255.255.255. Now let's configure OSPF. Again I'll use a different process ID but usually I just use process ID1 for all routers. Router OSPF2. I'll enable OSPF on both physical interfaces first like this. Network 10.0.0.0.0.0.255.255.255. Area 0. Then the loopback interface. Network 2.2.2.2.0.0.0. Area 0. And let's make that a passive interface. Passive interface L0. Okay that's all here on R2. Finally let's move to R1. Enable. Conf T. Interface L0. IP address 1.1.1.1.255.255.255.255. Now let's configure OSPF. Router OSPF1. So we are told we don't need to enable OSPF on the internet link. Why is that? Well we are going to advertise a default route to the other routers later. But there's no need for them to know about this point-to-point connection between R1 and ISPR1. If R2 needs to reach a server over the internet for example, it just needs to know to send the traffic to R1. There's no need to know what subnet is used for the connection between R1 and ISPR1. So we won't activate OSPF on the interface unnecessarily. I'll do each interface one by one. Network 10.0.12.0.0.0.0.0.0.3. Area 0. Network 10.0.0.13.0.0.0.0.0.0.3. Area 0. Network 1.1.1.1.0.0.0.0.0. Area 0. Notice that for each router, I configure the network statements a little differently. On R4, I used a single command to enable OSPF on all interfaces. On R3, I specified the exact address on each interface. On R2, I enabled the two physical interfaces with one command. Here on R1, I configured the network address of each interface. Just be aware that there is more than one way to enable OSPF on each interface. OK, now let's make loopback 0 a passive interface. Passive interface L0. Before checking out some show commands here, let's do step 4 and configure R1 to advertise a default route. First, I'll do default information, originate. Currently, a default route isn't configured, though. So, let's exit and now configure it. IP route 0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0. And set the next top to ISPR1's G000 interface, 203.0.113.2. OK, we're done with the configurations, so I'll use exit to return to privileged exec mode. First, let's check out show IP protocols. We've already covered the output of this command. I just want to highlight that the loopback interfaces IP address of 1.1.1.1 became the router ID. And because we configured default information originate, it says it is an autonomous system boundary router, an ASPR. An ASPR advertises outside networks into the OSPF domain, such as when R1 advertises a default route to the internet into the OSPF domain. Now, let's look at a few OSPF specific commands. I will cover these in detail in the next few videos, but here's just a preview of them. First, to view the link state database, LSDB, use this command. Show IP OSPF database. Here you can see all of the LSAs in the LSDB. Notice there are a few types displayed. Router link states, net link states, and type 5 AS external link states. I'll talk more about these in the next video. Here's another command. To view R1's OSPF neighbors, show IP OSPF neighbor. As expected, R2 and R3 are listed as OSPF neighbors. And one more command. Show IP OSPF interface. You can specify an individual interface if you want, or just view all interfaces. This gives details about the current OSPF settings on the interface, such as the various timers OSPF uses. Feel free to look around at the output of these commands if you want, but I will explain their output in a future video. Just wanted to make you aware of them. Finally, let's do step 5. Check the routing tables of R2, R3, and R4. What default routes were added? Let's check R2 first. Do show IP route. The default route is down here via 10.0.12.1, which is R1, as expected. Now let's check R3. Do show IP route. Okay, R3's default route is via R1, 10.0.13.1. Now let's check R4, and you might see something a little unexpected. What do you think the next top of the default route will be? R2 or R3? Note that the connection between R1 and R2 is a gigabit ethernet connection, while the others are fast ethernet. Since I already taught you that OSPF uses interface bandwidth to calculate the metric, you probably expect the path via R2 to be preferred, and expect that it will be the only one entered into the routing table because of a lower metric value. Let's see. Do show IP route. Well, it looks like both routes have been added, so R4 will load balance over both paths. Why is that? Well, I will explain that in future videos. But if you want to do some independent research, try to find the answer yourself. If you think you know the answer, post it in the comment section. Okay, so in this lab we did some basic OSPF configurations in this network, including passive interfaces and advertising a default route. That's all for this lab. Now let's check out a bonus lab in Boson NetSim for CCNA. Okay, for today's Boson NetSim lab preview, we're going to take a quick look at this lab here, planning and configuring single area OSPF. Here is the lab topology. There are four routers. routers one and three and two and four are connected with fast ethernet. But routers one and two and three and four are connected with a serial connection. And as it says here, it is using frame relay as the layer two encapsulation. So frame relay is a layer two encapsulation like ethernet, but it's used on serial connections. Now some other options for serial connections are ppp and HDLC. Now in the current CCNA, you don't have to know these in depth. I will mention them briefly in these OSPF videos, but the main focus is the ethernet layer two encapsulation. Okay, down here are the commands you need to note to complete this lab, the IP addresses on each device and then the lab tasks. So this lab is divided into four main tasks, verify initial configurations, plan for OSPF, configure OSPF and verify OSPF. So in the first OSPF video, the first lecture video, I only covered the absolute basics of OSPF. So we're not actually ready to complete this whole lab. But that's okay. We'll just do task one and a little bit of task two so you can see what this lab is like. And if you want to try it out yourself, you can get a copy of NetSim from the link in the description and try it out yourself here in NetSim. Okay, task one, verify initial configurations. Step one, verify the IP address and state of each interface on each router. So I'm already in the CLI of router one, so let's check here. Show IP interface brief. Let's check with the IP addresses table here. Serial 0, 10.1.0.1, looks good, fast Ethernet 0.1, 10.0.0.1, looks good. Okay, and they are both up and up. Now let's check out router two. To open router two, click here on the right side under devices and click on console. Okay, serial 0, 0, 10.1.0.2 looks good and fast Ethernet 1, 0, 10.2.0.2. Okay, and they are both up and up. Next, I'll check out router three. Okay, serial 0 is 10.3.0.3, that's correct, fast Ethernet 1, 0, 10.0.0.3, and that is correct. Okay, and finally, I'll check on router four. Okay, 10.3.0.4 is good, 10.2.0.4, that is good also. Okay, so all of the IP address configurations look good and the interfaces are all up, up. Okay, next step two, I'll try some pings. So first from router one, I'll try to ping these two interfaces. This one on router three and this one on router two. Okay, so I'll go back to router one. Ping first, router two, serial 0, 0 interface, 10.1.0.2. Okay, looks good. And next, router three's, fast Ethernet 1, 0 interface, 10.0.0.3. Okay, no problem. And then step three, from router four, ping router two's fast Ethernet 1, 0 interface, and router three's, 0, 0, 0 interface. So I'll ping these two interfaces here. Okay, I'll go on to our four again, ping 10.2.0.2, that is router two's fast Ethernet 1, 0. Okay, and router three's serial 0, 0. Okay, I'll look good. So the initial configurations are fine. All the interfaces are up, up, and there is concsavvy. They can all ping each other. Next task two, plan for OSPF. All four routers should be members of the backbone area. What is the area ID of the backbone? So as I said in the last video, the backbone area is area zero. Now for single area OSPF, you don't actually have to use area zero, the backbone. You can use any area number, area one, two, three, four, five, whatever number you want. However, generally, it's recommended that you use area zero for single area OSPF. And that is one of the requirements of this lab. Okay, step two, your configuration should be specific enough so that as additional networks are added to the router, those networks are not automatically advertised. Okay, so we have to be specific with our network statements. We can't use the trick I showed you earlier, network 0.0.0.0.255.255.255.255 to activate OSPF on all interfaces. We should be specific about which networks we want to advertise. Okay, the IP redding tables on each router should be populated with the specific IP subnets in your network using the IP addresses table list the specific networks and masks that should be configured to satisfy this requirement. So we should configure the specific subnet on each interface. So all of them are slash 24, as you can see. So if you want to know the network address, just change this last number to zero. So for example, on router one, there is 10.0.0.0 slash 24 and 10.1.0.0 slash 24. Router 2 has 10.1.0.0 slash 24 and 10.2.0 slash 24. Router 3 has 10.0.0.0 slash 24 and 10.3.0.0 slash 24. And finally, router 4 has 10.2.0.0 slash 24 and 10.3.0.0 slash 24. So those are all the subnets. Okay, so that's step 2, step 3 list the OSPF network commands necessary to accomplish the configuration requirement in the previous step. Okay, so we'll configure the network statements, I just said, but you have to make sure to use a wildcard mask. So the slash 24 would not be 255.255.255.0. It would be the inverse. So O.O.O.O.255. So just to show you the commands that you would use on each router, let's look at the lab solutions down here. And here they are. So for example, on router one network 10.0.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.255 area zero and then the same for 10.1.O.O.O. And you can check on router 2, 3 and 4 as well. Okay, now from step 4, it talks about some aspects of OSPF that we haven't covered yet in the last video. For example, dr, that stands for designated router, which is an important topic in OSPF and I will cover it over the next couple of videos. So I'm going to end this lab preview here. If you want to try this lab and all these other OSPF labs out yourself, make sure to get a copy of Netsim from the link in the description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. Thank you to Florian, Daming, Vincatesh, Koni, Joshua, Jillmar, Samil, Ed, value, Magraethia, Justin, John, FunnyDirt, Scott, Hassan, Gerard, TV, Joyce, Marik, Velva, Jacob, C-Mode, Johann, Mark, Miguel, Yusif, CD, Boson, Software, Chalzetta, Devin, Lito, Mike, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. One of you is still displaying as channel failed to load. If this is you, please let me know, and I'll see if YouTube can fix it. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, August 4th, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.