VIDEO 59: Free CCNA | First Hop Redundancy Protocols | Day 29 | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43WnpwQMolo
CCNA Domain: 3-IP_Connectivity
Duration: 40m 25s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. In this video, we will cover all you need to know about first hop redundancy protocols or FHRP's. This isn't the name of a specific protocol. It's a type of protocol, and there are three FHRP's you should be aware of for the CCNA. Let's check the exam topics list. Here it is, topic 3.5. Describe the purpose of first hop redundancy protocol. I think there should be an S on the end there. There is no mention of configuration, so you don't need to worry about configuring any of the FHRP's for the exam. However, in this video, I will show you basic configurations for one of the FHRP's, so you can try it out in the next lab video. Even if you don't need to know the configurations for the exam, getting a little hands-on practice will help you understand how these FHRP's work. Here's what we'll cover in today's video. First up, I'll introduce the purpose of first hop redundancy protocols. Then I'll introduce three different FHRP's. HSRP, hot standby router protocol, VRRP, virtual router redundancy protocol, and GLBP, gateway load balancing protocol. It may seem like a lot to learn about three different protocols in one video, but you just need to be able to make basic comparisons of each. You don't need to know them in depth. Finally, we'll spend a few minutes learning some basic configurations of HSRP, hot standby router protocol. After the quiz at the end of the video, I will feature a bonus question from Boson XIM for CCNA, a set of practice exams for the CCNA. I studied using XIM when preparing for both my CCNA and CCNP exams, and I highly recommend that you do too. To get XIM, follow the link in the video description. Okay, let's get started. I used the same diagram back in day 20 when talking about spanning tree protocol to demonstrate the concept and importance of redundancy in networks. For example, if there is only one connection to the internet, and it fails due to a hardware failure or something else, these PCs will no longer be able to reach the internet. In your home, losing internet access for some time would be frustrating, but probably not a disaster. For most modern businesses, however, it would be a big problem. So we can use redundant connections to the internet like this. Notice I've added some device names and IP addresses in the 172.16.0.0 slash 24 network to make things easier to talk about. Now, if this connection fails, PC1 can use this alternate path to the internet. This could be, for example, a slower and cheaper connection that is only used until the main connection is recovered. But let's stop and think about this because it's not so simple. In this network, let's say R1's IP address 172.16.0.254 is configured as the default gateway. So that means each PC is configured with the 172.16.0.254 address as its default gateway. So anytime these PCs need to send traffic outside of the local subnet, they will send it to the default gateway R1. But what happens if R1 goes down for some reason? Perhaps a hardware failure. Fortunately, there is a backup router connected to the internet, R2. But there's a problem here. Can you identify the problem? Pause the video and think about it for a minute. Okay, the problem is here. The PC's default gateway is still set to 254, R1's address. Although R2 is available as a backup, the PCs don't know that R1 is down and that they should switch to using R2 as their default gateway. If a PC needs to send traffic over the internet, it will continue to try to send the traffic to R1. So how can we cause R2 to automatically become the new default gateway if R1 can no longer be used? That's the role of a first-hop redundancy protocol, an FHRP. Here's a brief explanation of FHRP's from Wikipedia. A first-hop redundancy protocol, FHRP, is a computer networking protocol which is designed to protect the default gateway used on a subnetwork by allowing two or more routers to provide backup for that address. In the event of failure of an active router, the backup router will take over the address, usually within a few seconds. The name first-hop redundancy protocol is used because the default gateway is the first-hop, the first router, in the path to whatever destination the PC is sending traffic to. Here's how FHRP's do this. The two routers share a VIP, a virtual IP address, for example 172.16.0.252. You can figure the PCs in the network to use that virtual IP as their default gateway, instead of the actual IP address of R1. Now, the routers have to negotiate their roles with each other. How do they do that? They send multicast hello messages to each other, like this. Okay, so what roles did they negotiate? Well, one of them, let's say R1, will become the active router. The other, R2, will become the standby router. Note that the actual terms, like active and standby, vary depending on which FHRP is being used, because as I showed you before, there are a few different FHRP's. So, R1 is the active, meaning it will act as the default gateway for the network. R2 is the standby, meaning it will not function as the default gateway unless R1 fails. If R1 does fail, it will automatically take over the role as default gateway. So, let's say we set up our FHRP here in this network, and now PC1 needs to send some traffic to a destination in another network. Here's what PC1 is thinking. I need to send traffic to a destination in another network. My default gateway is 172.16.0.252, but I don't know the MAC address yet. I will send an R request to learn the MAC address of 172.16.0.252. I haven't mentioned Rp in a while in this course, but remember that it is used to learn the MAC address of a particular IP address. In order for PC1 to encapsulate the packet in a frame destined for the default gateway, it has to know the default gateway's MAC address. So, PC1 will make an R request like this, saying, hi 172.16.0.252. This is 172.16.0.1. What's your MAC address? Remember that the R request message is broadcast, so it will be sent over the network like this, reaching all hosts. Fortunately, spanning three prevents a broadcast storm by disabling some of the switch interfaces. So, both R1 and R2 have received the R request, and they both share the same virtual IP address, 172.16.0.252, the one in the R request. What happens now? Which will send the R reply? R1 is the active router, and R2 is the standby router, so you can probably guess that R1 will send the R reply. And that is correct. R1 will send a unicast R reply like this. Hi 172.16.0.1. This is 172.16.0.252. My MAC address is, and then it will tell PC1 the virtual MAC address. That's right, not only is a virtual IP address used, but a virtual MAC address too. Each FHRP uses a different virtual MAC address, and I will introduce them later. So, the R reply is sent to PC1. Now PC1 knows the MAC address of its default gateway. So let's say PC1 needs to send some traffic to the IP address 8.8.8.8, which is a Google server by the way. What will the source and destination fields of the frame and packet be? The source IP will be PC1's 172.16.0.1. The destination IP will be the Google server 8.8.8.8.8. The source MAC will be PC1's MAC address, and the destination MAC address will be the virtual MAC address used by the FHRP. The frame will be sent to R1, and then the packet will be sent over the internet. Now what if R1 goes down? There is no default gateway for the network. But after a few seconds, R2 will think, I haven't received any hello messages from R1 recently. I will become the active router. So R2 is now the active router. But how does it tell the other devices to send traffic to it instead of R1? Note that the end hosts, the PCs, actually don't have to change their ARP tables. The entry in the PCs ARP table is like this. Mapping the virtual IP address, 172.16.0.252, to the virtual MAC address. So what needs to be updated to make their traffic start going through R2? The answer is the switches. R2 needs to make the switches update their MAC address tables. Remember how switches update their MAC address table? When they receive a frame, they check the source MAC address field, and use that to update the information in the MAC address table. So R2 needs to send frames with the source MAC address of the virtual MAC address. To do this, it will send gratuitous ARP replies. Grituitous ARP is probably outside of the scope of the CCNA, but here is a very brief explanation. Grituitous ARP messages are ARP replies sent without being requested. Normally ARP replies are sent in reply to an ARP request, but in gratuitous ARP, the ARP reply messages are sent without receiving an ARP request. Here is another difference between gratuitous ARP and regular ARP replies. The frames are broadcast to the MAC address of all F's, but normal ARP replies are unicast. Because they are broadcast, all switches will receive the frames and update their MAC address table. So R2 will send gratuitous ARPs like this. They will be broadcast throughout the network, and again, spanning tree protocol will prevent a broadcast storm. The switches will then update their MAC address tables. Switch 2 will learn that it can now reach the virtual MAC address via this interface. Switch 1 will learn the same thing, and so will switch 3 and switch 4. Now R2 is the active router, and all of the switches have updated their MAC address tables. Let's say PC1 wants to send traffic to the same Google server, 8.8.8.8 again. The frame and packet are exactly the same as before. Source IP is PC1's, destination IP is the Google server, source MAC is PC1's, and destination MAC is the virtual MAC. However, this time the frame will be sent to R2, which will send the packet out over the internet. Now what if R1 comes online again? Will it become the active router once again? No, it will become the standby router. Like I said about the DR and BDR in OSPF, FHRP's are non-preemptive. The current active router will not automatically give up its role, even if the former active router returns. However, although this is the default behavior, you can change this setting to make R1 preempt R2 and take back its active role automatically, so R2 will become the standby router again. Okay, so that was a basic overview of how first hop redundancy protocols, FHRP's work. I haven't talked about any specific FHRP's yet, but most of that information applies to all of them. Before moving on to explain a few specific FHRP's, here's a quick review. A virtual IP is configured on the two routers, and a virtual MAC is generated for the virtual IP. Each FHRP uses a different format for the virtual MAC address. I'll cover those MAC addresses in the next section. An active router and a standby router are elected. Again, different FHRP's use different terms, and some support what's called an active active setup, with two active routers at the same time, but I'll explain more later. Next, end hosts in the network are configured to use the virtual IP as their default gateway. The active router applies to our requests using the virtual MAC address, so traffic destined for other networks will be sent to it. It functions as the default gateway for the network. If the active router fails, the standby becomes the next active router. The new active router will send gratuitous art messages, so that switches will update their MAC address tables. It now functions as the default gateway for the network. If the old active router comes back online, by default it won't take back its role as the active router. It will become the standby router. This is like the DRNBDR in OSPF. They don't give up the roles automatically, even if another router is configured with a higher priority. But, in FHRP's, you can configure preemption, so that the old active router does take back its old role, if it comes back online. Okay, sorry for the wall of text. Before moving on to a few specific FHRP's, I recommend watching the previous section once more, to make sure you understand the basics of how FHRP's work. Now let's move on. Now I'll give a brief overview of three major FHRP's. The functionality of each is very similar, so this section will be quite brief, but make sure you learn these details for the exam. First up, HSRP. Hot standby router protocol. HSRP is Cisco proprietary, so it only runs on Cisco devices. You can't run it on Juniper routers, for example. In HSRP, an active and standby router are elected. These are the two terms I used previously, but you'll see the next FHRP uses different terms. There are two versions of HSRP, version one and version two. Version two adds IPv6 support, and increases the number of groups that can be configured. You'll see what a group is when we configure HSRP later. In our example today, there is just one subnet, 172.16.0.0 slash 24 and one VLAN. But in situations with multiple subnets and VLANs, you'll need to configure a virtual IP address for each subnet, because each subnet needs its own default gateway. Each of those virtual IPs is configured in a separate HSRP group. Anyway, as I said, you'll see how that works later. Remember how I explained that the routers communicate with each other by sending multicast hello messages? These are the addresses used. 224.0.0.2 for version one and 224.0.0.102 for version two. It may seem not so important, but try to remember these addresses for the test. Next up, the virtual MAC address formats. These are tougher to remember, but make sure you remember them for the exam. Use the flashcards, try writing them from memory, whatever you have to do to remember them. So version one uses 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 7, AC, followed by the group number. So in my previous example, let's say I configured the virtual IP address in group one. If using HSRP version one, what would the virtual MAC address be? It's 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 7, AC, 0, 1, because the group number is one. Now, HSRP version two uses the format 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, C, 9, F, F, XX, XX. Again, XXX is the group number. Note that three hexadecimal digits are now available instead of two. So there are more group numbers available. Anyway, if group number one is used, what would the virtual MAC address be in HSRP version two? It's 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1. One last point. In a situation with multiple subnets in VLANs, you can configure a different active router in each subnet to load balance. Remember what I said in previous videos about spanning tree protocol? You can configure a different root bridge in each VLAN. So traffic is load balanced over the switches. Well, when you configure multiple HSRP groups, one for each subnet in VLAN, you can configure a different active router in each subnet in VLAN. For example, R1 could be the active router in VLAN1 and standby in VLAN2, and R2 could be the standby in VLAN1 and active in VLAN2. This is probably beyond what you need to know for the CCNA, but let me briefly demonstrate the concept. Let's say VLAN1 is assigned to hosts in the 172.16.1.0 slash 24 subnet. PC1 and PC3 are in VLAN1. R1 and R2 have their own IP addresses in VLAN1, but they also share the virtual IP 172.16.1.252, which is used as the default gateway of the subnet. R1 is the active router, and R2 is the standby router. Then, 172.16.2.0 slash 24 is the subnet for VLAN2. PC2 and PC4 are in VLAN2. R1 and R2 have their own IP addresses in VLAN2, connecting to the switches using router on a stick. They also share the virtual IP address, 172.16.2.252, which is used as the default gateway for the subnet. R2 is the active router, and R1 is a standby router. Now, traffic can be load balanced over the two paths. VLAN1 using R1 and VLAN2 using R2 as the default gateway of the subnet, and each subnet has a standby router waiting if the active router fails. So that's a basic overview of HSRP. Although it can't load balance within a single subnet, you can't configure a different active router in each subnet, so that traffic is load balanced between the routers. Let's move on to the next FHRP. Next up is VRRP, virtual router redundancy protocol. Unlike HSRP, it's an open standard, so it can be run on devices from any maker. Cisco routers run it too, so you can use either HSRP or VRRP. Honestly, in terms of functionality, they are nearly identical, with just a few differences. Instead of an active and standby router, a master and backup router are elected. The function is the same, just the names are different. Master is equivalent to HSRP's active, and backup is equivalent to HSRP's standby. The IPv4 multicast address used is different as well, 224.0.0.18. Again, use the flashcards to remember little details like this. The virtual MAC address format is different to, 0.0.0.0.5E.0.0.0.1, followed by the VRRP group number. Let's try a bit more of a challenge. What if I configured VRRP group 200 instead of group 1? What would the virtual MAC address be? You have to convert 200 to hexadecimal. Pause the video to try that. Do a Google search if you don't remember how hexadecimal works. Okay, the answer is 0.0.0.5E.0.0.0.1.C8. hexadecimal C8 is equal to 200 in decimal. Just like HSRP, although VRRP can't perform load balancing for hosts in a single subnet, it can load balance between different subnets by configuring a different master router in each subnet. Here's the same diagram as before, showing load balancing between the two subnets. All that's different is that master and backup are used instead of active and standby. Before moving on, I just want to mention one point separate from FHRP's. Notice that all hosts in VLAN1 are in the same subnet, 172.16.1.0.0.24, and all hosts in VLAN2 are in the same subnet. 172.16.2.0.0.24. This is how subnets in VLANs are used. Subnets divide the network at layer 3, and VLANs divide the network at layer 2, and they work together, each subnet being its own VLAN. You might have noticed that throughout this course, but I just wanted to point it out. Before moving on to the last FHRP, here's a comparison chart of HSRP and VRRP. In terms of functionality, they're nearly the same, but remember the different terminology, multi-cast IP addresses, and virtual Mac addresses. Also remember that HSRP is Cisco proprietary, whereas VRRP is an open standard that can run on any network device that supports it. Next up, we'll take a look at GLBP. The final FHRP you should be aware of is GLBP, Gateway Load Balancing Protocol. This one is a bit different than HSRP and VRRP. Like HSRP, it is Cisco proprietary, it only runs on Cisco devices. Here's the big difference. It load balances among multiple routers within a single subnet. For example, if PC1 and PC2 are both in VLAN1, PC1 can use R1 as its default gateway, and PC2 can use R2 as its default gateway. This is different than HSRP and VRRP, in which all hosts in the same subnet must use the same router as the default gateway for the subnet. In GLBP, a single AVG active virtual gateway is elected for the subnet. Then up to 4 AVFs active virtual forators are assigned by the AVG, and the AVG itself can be an AVF also. Each AVF acts as the default gateway for a portion of the hosts in the subnet. So load balancing is achieved within a single subnet. The multi-cast IPv4 address is 224.0.0.102, same as HSRP version 2. The virtual MAC address format is 007 B400, followed by the GLBP group number and the AVF number. For example, what is the virtual MAC address of AVF number 1 in GLBP group 1? It's 007 B400, 0101. So the functions of GLBP are a bit more complicated than HSRP and VRRP. But for the purposes of the CCNA, remember that GLBP allows multiple active routers to load balanced traffic within a single subnet, and remember the multi-cast IP address and the virtual MAC address format. It might not seem so important, but for the CCNA exam, definitely remember the IP and MAC addresses. Here's that chart again, with GLBP filled in. If you remember the basic characteristics of HSRP, VRRP, and GLBP, and memorize the information in this chart, you'll be ready to answer any questions about FHRP's on the CCNA exam. However, as a little extra, I'm going to show you some very basic configurations for HSRP so we can try it out in a lab in the next video. Although configuring HSRP isn't part of the CCNA exam topics, getting some hands-on experience will help you understand how it works. So let's do some basic configurations for HSRP. To fit everything on the page and show the CLI at the same time, I've simplified the network. We'll be focusing on configuring R1 and R2 to use HSRP to provide a redundant default gateway address for the 172.16.0.0 slash 24 subnet. I've already configured all of the interface IP addresses, so we just need to configure HSRP. Note that I'm using .254 as the virtual IP this time, instead of .252. So let's get started configuring R1. HSRP is configured directly on the interface, G00 in this case. Make sure you configure it on the correct interface. The one connected to the network, it is acting as the default gateway for. HSRP is configured with the stand-by command. I use the question mark to see what options are available. There are many more than this, but the one we want to use is this one, group number. Note that HSRP version 1 is the default, so the range of groups available is 0 through 255. If using HSRP version 2, this range would be 0 through 4,095. Actually, let me show you how to change it to version 2. The command is stand-by version 2. If I check the stand-by command again, you can see that the group number range is now 0 through 4,095. This simple network is just using a single VLAN, VLAN1. So I chose HSRP group number 1. You don't have to do this, it's not a rule, but I like to match the HSRP group number to the VLAN number used for the subnet. Note that this group number does have to match between the two retters, that's important. So I use the question mark again to check the options available here. We'll go over 3, IP, preempt, and priority. First up, you can figure the virtual IP with this command, stand-by group number, IP, followed by the IP address you want to use as the default gateway. Then I use the priority command. As you can see, the range is 0 to 255, and I set our ones priority to 200. What does priority do? It's used to determine which router will be the active router. The active router is determined in this order. First, the router with the highest HSRP priority in the group will become the active router. The default priority is 100. If the routers have the same priority, the router with the highest IP address will become the active router. In this case, our ones IP address, 172.16.0.253, is higher than our two's IP address, 172.16.0.252. So even without configuring the priority, our one would still become the active router, but I configured it anyway. Finally, I enabled preemption. Enabling the preempt command causes the router to take the role of active router, even if another router already has the role. Although the preempting router must have a higher priority or IP address. For example, let's say our one is the active router and our two is the standby router. If an error causes our one to restart, our two will become the active router. When our one comes back online, if preemption is not enabled, our two will remain the active router and our one will be the standby. However, with preemption enabled, our one will take back its role as the active router, because it has the higher priority. Note that you only need to configure preemption on the router you want to become the active router. Even if I don't configure preemption on our two, our one will still be able to preempt our two and take back the active role. Now let's configure our two. First up, I enabled HSRP version two on our two's G00 interface. This is important. HSRP version one and version two are not compatible. So if our one uses version two, our two must use version two also, or there will be problems. Next, I configure the same virtual IP as on our one. 172.16.0.254. The next two commands, setting the priority and preemption, are actually unnecessary. Our one already has a higher priority than our two, and preemption doesn't need to be enabled on the standby router. But I configure them anyway, so the configuration is consistent between the two routers, but it doesn't really matter. Finally, let's take a look at the output of show standby. This is the output from both R1 and R2. Let's just take a look at R1. For stop, notice the HSRP group number of one, and that version two is being used. The state is active, because R1 is the active router. Here, the virtual IP address we configured is displayed. These two lines display the virtual MAC address. It's the default one. Here are the HSRP timers. We didn't configure these, so they are the default values. Preemption is enabled, because we configured stand by one preempt. Active router is local, because R1 itself is the active router. The standby router is 172.16.0.252, which is R2. And finally, here is the priority value of 200 that we configured. If you want to take a look at the output of the command for R2 also, pause the video. Okay, that's all we'll cover about HSRP configuration. In the lab video, we'll get more hands-on. Before moving on to the quiz, let's review what we covered in this video. First, I gave an introduction to the purpose and basic function of FHRP, which is to provide a redundant default gateway for a subnet. Then, I briefly introduced three different FHRP's, HSRP, VRRP, and GLBP. Make sure to learn the basic characteristics of each, and use the chart to memorize their multicast IP addresses and virtual MAC addresses. Then, I introduced some very basic HSRP configurations. You probably won't be asked about these commands on the exam, but getting some hands-on practice will help you understand the topic. So in the next video, we'll do a simple HSRP lab, taking a look at preemption and such. Here are the commands we used. Stand by version 2, to configure the router to use HSRP version 2. Stand by IP to set the virtual IP address that will be used as the default gateway. Stand by priority to help control which router becomes the active router. And stand by preempt to cause the active router to take its rollback if it recovers from a failure. Remember to watch until the end of today's quiz, for a bonus question from Boseon XM for CCNA. By far, the best practice exams you can get for the CCNA. You can get Boseon XM from the link in the video description. Okay, let's go to question 1 of the quiz. Which of the following is an HSRP version 1 virtual MAC address? A, B, C, or D. Pause the video now to think about your answer. The answer is D, 00000, 000007 ACAB. The HSRP version 1 virtual MAC address format is 00000007 AC, followed by the group number, in this case AB. What is AB in decimal? It's 171. So in this case, HSRP group number 171 was used. As for the incorrect answers, options A and C are HSRP version 2 virtual MAC addresses, and option B does not follow any FHRP virtual MAC address format. Let's go to question 2. Which of the following is a VRRP virtual MAC address? A, B, C, or D. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is A, 000005E0010A. The VRRP virtual MAC address format is 000005E0001, followed by the group number. What is hexadecimal 0A in decimal? It's 10. So in this case, VRRP was configured using group number 10. Option B is a GLBP virtual MAC address. Option C is an HSRP version 2 virtual MAC address, and option D does not follow any FHRP virtual MAC address format. Okay, let's go to question 3. Which of the following are valid VRRP router roles? Select 2. A, active, B, backup, C, active virtual gateway, D, master, E, standby, or F active virtual forater. Pause the video to think about your answers. The answers are B, backup, and D master. A, active, and E standby are HSRP router roles. C, active virtual gateway, and F active virtual forater are GLBP router roles. VRRP uses master and backup routers. Okay, let's go to question 4. When the HSRP standby router becomes the new active router, what kind of messages does it send? Select the best answer. A, HSRP hello messages. B, gratuitous art messages. C, art per quest messages. Or D, art per apply messages. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is B, gratuitous art. Some other answers are not totally incorrect, but are not the best answer. Let me explain. In Cisco's questions, at the end, it usually says select the best answer. That's because some of the options aren't totally incorrect. However, they aren't the best answer. For example, option A is HSRP hello. Router is using HSRP, always send hello messages. So when the HSRP standby router becomes the new active router, it will continue sending HSRP hello messages. So A isn't totally incorrect. However, B is the better answer because it only sends these gratuitous art messages when it becomes the new active router. How about D, art per apply? I told you that gratuitous art messages are a kind of art per apply, so D isn't totally incorrect. However, B is the better answer because it's more specific. So when taking the CCNA exam, make sure you're selecting the best answer, even if some of the other options seem like they might be correct. Let's go to question 5. Which of the following statements accurately describes HSRP? Select the best answer. A, it allows you to configure a different default gateway address on each end host. B, it allows multiple routers to load balance traffic for hosts in a subnet. C, it provides a redundant default gateway address for hosts in a subnet. Or D, each router selects a unique virtual IP and MAC address. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is C, it provides a redundant gateway for hosts in a subnet. Although you can configure a different active router in each subnet to provide load balancing, it doesn't provide load balancing for hosts in a single subnet. To do that, you would need to use Cisco's GLBP, gateway load balancing protocol. Okay, that's all for the quiz. Let's move on to a bonus question in Boson XM for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson XM practice question. By the way, I noticed that you can zoom in on XM, so hopefully this is easier for you to read now. So here's the question, which of the following statements are true regarding HSRP? Select two choices. Okay, so I'll let you read these options yourself. Pause the video here, read the options, and select the two correct choices. Okay, hopefully you got the answers, so let's check them. A, one router is elected as the master router, and all other routers are placed in the backup state. That is incorrect. Master and backup, that terminology is used for VRRP, not HSRP. B, in an HSRP group, only one virtual IP address is used, but multiple virtual MAC addresses are used. That is also incorrect. In a single HSRP group, only one virtual MAC address is used. Okay, C, one router is elected as the active router, and another router is elected as the standby router. That is correct, I believe, about HSRP. A D, in an HSRP group, only one virtual IP address, and one virtual MAC address is used. That is correct also. I think, but let's check option E as well. All routers in an HSRP group can participate by forwarding a portion of the traffic. Okay, that is not true for HSRP, but it is true for GLBP. Okay, so I think C and D are correct. Let's click on show answer, and that is correct. So here is Boson's explanation, quite detailed. Now you can pause the video here, if you want to read it, I highly recommend you do. They also have a reference to some Cisco documentation here that you can read online for free, and it states the category of the exam topics list, which is IP connectivity. Okay, so that is an example question from Boson XM. Boson XM is a great set of practice exams for the CCNA. I used it when studying for my CCNA, and I also used XM for CCNP when I studied for my CCNP, and I highly recommend them. So if you want to get a copy of Boson XM for CCNA, follow the link in the video description. There are supplementary materials for this video. There is a flashcard deck to use with the software Anki. There will also be a packet tracer practice lab, so you can get some hands-on practice. That will be in the next video. Sign up for my mailing list via the link in the description, and I'll send you all of the flashcards and packet tracer lab files for the course. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. Recently I've noticed an increase in the number of channel members, and I'm so thankful to all of you, both JCNA and JCNP level members. Your support helps me keep making and releasing these videos every week, so I'm really grateful for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way. September 21st, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry. You'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or basic attention token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.