VIDEO 60: Free CCNA | Configuring HSRP | Day 29 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uho5Z2nFhb8
CCNA Domain: 3-IP_Connectivity
Duration: 22m 1s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course, so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Bosons NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we will go through the configurations covered in the lecture video. Let's get right into it. First, in step one, we will ping an external server, 8.8.8.8 from these two PCs, as well as check their default gateway. I'll do the ping from PC1 first. ping 8.8.8.8.8 Okay, the ping works. Now, let's check PC1's default gateway. On a PC, you can use this command, IP config, to check the IP settings. So, our one's default gateway address is 10.0.1.253, which is R1. Now, let's check on PC2. First, I'll ping the server. ping 8.8.8.8. Okay, we're getting replies. So, what's PC2's default gateway? Let's check. IP config. It's R1, so it's the same as PC1. Now, let me do something I didn't do on PC1. I'll do a trace route to 8.8.8.8. I've shown you this once before, I think. It's a very useful command. On PCs, the command is traceRT, but be aware that in Cisco iOS, it's traceRoute spelled out fully. So, traceRT 8.8.8.8. And you can confirm that the first top is 10.0.1.253, before it reaches 8.8.8.8, which is just a loopback interface on R3, by the way. Next up in step 2, we are told to configure HSRP version 2 on R1 and R2. We should make sure R1 is the active router, raises priority, lower R2's priority, and also enable preemption. Let's go on R1. Enable, Conf T. Remember, FHRP's like HSRP are configured directly on the interface, G00 in this case. Interface G00. First, let's enable HSRP version 2. The command is Standby version 2. Next, I'll configure the virtual IP. I didn't mention this in the lecture video, but notice that you can configure the IP, preemption, priority, etc, without specifying the group number. If you do this, the router will automatically use a group number of 0. The Standby version command, however, applies to all groups. You don't need to specify the group number. I like to match the group number with the VLAN number, so I'm going to configure a group number of 1. I haven't done any VLAN configuration on the switches, so everything is in VLAN1. You can use whatever group number you want, though. First, I'll configure the virtual IP and get HSRP actually running. Standby 1, IP 10.0.1.254. Next, the priority. Standby 1, priority 200. The default is 100. Finally, I'll enable preemption. Standby 1, preempt. Okay, that's all for now on R1. Now I'll configure R2. Enable, Conf T, Interface G00. Okay, I'm going to leave it at HSRP version 1 for now, to show you what happens when there is a version mismatch. Let's configure the priority. Standby 1, priority 50. Now the virtual IP, same as on R1. Standby 1, IP 10.0.1.254. Now I'm going to click this arrow here in Packet Tracer to fast forward 30 seconds. If I return to R2, you can see all of these messages about a duplicate address. That's because both R1 and R2 think they are the active router. Why is that? It's because of the version mismatch. Because there is a version mismatch, they aren't able to negotiate an active and standby. They both claim to be the active router. To fix this, I'll configure version 2 here on R2. Standby version 2. Now I'll click those arrows again. And now I'll check back on R2. So the messages have stopped. Let's check Do Show Standby. Okay, state is Standby. And down here, you can see that the active router is 10.0.1.253, which is R1. So now that the version's match, everything seems to be working fine. Next up in step 3, I'll configure the new VIP as the default gateway of PC1 and PC2. PC1 first. Click on Config, then set the default gateway here. Now I'll do the same on PC2. Config and set it to 10.0.1.254. From here on PC2, I'll try a ping again. ping 8.8.8.8. Okay, the ping works. And let's check the ARP table. On PCs, the command is ARP-A. There it is, 10.0.1.254. Notice the HSRP version 2 virtual MAC address, 0,000, 0C9F, F001. Now let me show you another interesting point. Let's try a trace retagain. Trace RT, 8.8.8.8. Notice that the first hop address is 10.0.1.253. The IP address of R1's G00 interface, not the virtual IP address. Even though the virtual IP is configured at the default gateway, R1 replies to the trace route using the interface IP address instead of the virtual IP address. So, Trace Route is a useful tool to check that the correct gateway is being used in a situation like this. Next up, let's turn off R1. But before that, we must make sure to save the config. Here on R1, I'll type end to return to privileged exec mode. And then write to save the running config. If you forget to save the config, it will be lost when R1 restarts. Now let's turn off R1. To do so, click on the physical tab here. And you can flip the power switch here. Now I'll click the arrows to fast forward 30 seconds so R2 can become the active router. And now let's try a ping from PC1. Ping 8.8.8.8. Okay, the ping works. So we know R2 must be acting as the default gateway. R1 is turned off. But let's try a trace route anyway to be sure. Trace RT 8.8.8.8. Okay, this time the first top is displayed as 10.0.1.252. R2's IP address. Even though the virtual IP used as the default gateway is .254. Finally, let's turn on R1 again. Go back to R1 and flip the power switch. I'll press the arrows again to skip forward. Now without checking the CLI of R1 or R2 to see the state, I'll try a ping and trace route from PC1. We enabled preemption. So R1 should take back the active router role. Let's try the ping first. Ping 8.8.8.8. Okay, it works. Now trace route. Let's see if R1's or R2's IP address is displayed as the first top. Trace RT 8.8.8.8. It is R1's IP address of 10.0.1.253. So R1 has become the active router once again. Okay, that's all for this lab. Next, let's take a look at a bonus lab in Bozan NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Bozan NetSim lab preview. As I said in the video, FHRP configuration isn't part of the CCNA exam anymore. So it's actually not in NetSim for CCNA. But I still want to show you an HSRP lab. So I have selected a lab from the encore CCNP encore 350-41 NetSim. So NetSim for CCNP encore. And FHRP configuration is an exam topic on the CCNP. And as you can see, there are plenty of labs for FHRP's in NetSim for CCNP. Starting here, configuring hot standby router protocol, all the way down to here, troubleshooting GLBP. So I counted in total there are 19 labs covering HSRP, VRRP, and GLBP. So all the configuration practice you need for FHRP's. Okay, the lab I've selected for today is this one, configuring hot standby router protocol. So let's check it out. This is the lab topology. Pretty simple. We got four switches, access switches, distribution switches, and then two routers. And we're going to configure HSRP on these routers. These are the commands you need to know, the standby commands we covered in the lecture and the ones we just saw. The IP addresses on each device and the lab tasks. There are four main tasks in this lab. Task one, verify basic connectivity. Task two, configure HSRP. Task three, verify HSRP configuration. And task four, assign HSRP priorities and preempt. So for this lab preview, let's just do task one and task two. So first up task one, it says this task involves verifying the connectivity of the devices on the network. Okay, so here's step one. Verify all non HSRP IP addresses on each device by using the proper show command and the IP addresses table. All right, so let's check. So the CLI of router one is already open. So I will check it out. Show IP interface brief. Fast Ethernet 0, 0 looks good and 0, 1 looks good also. Okay, let's check out router two. Fast Ethernet 0, 0 is correct and fast Ethernet 0, 1 is correct as well. Now let's check out the switches. Oh, I'm getting an update for NetSim. I will not download that now. Okay, a switch one, it has an IP address in VLAN1. Show IP interface brief. And the address is correct. How about access switch two. Yeah, address is correct. Okay, next the distribution switches. Enable show IP interface brief. VLAN1 looks good. Fast Ethernet 3, 4, 5 look good. And HSRP, I guess we will configure later. Next one, D switch two. The VLAN1 address is correct. And fast Ethernet 3, 4 and 5 are correct also. Okay, last up the two clients, the two PCs. So to check the IP address here, let's use IP config. IP address 3.30 looks good. The default gateway is 3.3, which is correct. And I guess later, we will change this to use the HSRP address as the default gateway. Okay, finally, I'll check on client two, IP config. IP address 3.30, sorry, 3.40, okay, and default gateway 3.2 looks good. Okay, so step two, verify that client one can ping D switch ones VLAN1 interface. Okay, I'll go back to client one. 1, 7, 2, 16, 3, 3. All right, we're getting a reply, so no problems there. And how about client two can it ping D switch twos VLAN1 interface? ping 172.16.3.2. Okay, looks good. And then verify that client one and client two can ping Router ones, fast Ethernet 0, 0 interface. Okay, ping 172.16.253.2. Okay, looks good. I'll do the same back on client one. Okay, Router ones, fast Ethernet 0, 0 interface. Oh, it's not labeled here. Okay, well, we can ping it, so that's not a problem. Actually, I'm using CDP to see what's connected here. This is a command we'll cover later in the course. Show CDP neighbors. Okay, so fast Ethernet 0, 0 is the one connected to D switch one here. And fast Ethernet 0, 1 is the one connected to D switch two. Got it. Okay, that's task one. We verified basic connectivity. Task two, configure HSRP. So on D switch one and D switch two create an HSRP group with a group number of three, and an IP address of 172.16.3.1. Okay, so this is something a little different. The distribution switches are going to be the default gateways for the clients, for the subnet. So instead of configuring HSRP on the routers, like I said earlier, we're actually going to configure it on the distribution switches. And you can do that on layer three switches. Okay, good. So this will be something a little different. Okay, so here on D switch one, cough T. And what is the interface? It's VLAN1, right? Do show VLAN brief. Yeah, everything's in VLAN1. Or do show IP interface brief. Do that once more. Yeah, VLAN1. Okay, so interface VLAN1 stand by and we're using group number three. So stand by three, IP 172.16.3.1. And that's it. Next D switch two, same thing, cough T interface VLAN1, stand by three, IP 172.16.3.1. Okay, next workstations and access layer switches should use the newly configured HSRP IP address as their default gateway on client one and client two configure the default gateway to be 172.16.3.1. Okay, so to do this, we have to use a special command for NetSim. That is this, IP config slash DG. That is not a Cisco command. That is a command used on PCs in NetSim. So IP config slash DG. 172.16.3.1. Okay, and client two, IP config slash DG 172.16.3.1. And let me just check with IP config. Yep, looks good. Okay, next on A switch one and A switch two configure the default gateway to be 172.16.3.1. Okay, so this is again, something I haven't covered in the course. So A switch one and A switch two are layer two switches. However, even on layer two switches, they are able to have one IP address, sorry about that, one IP address for management. So you can connect to that IP address and access the CLI of the device. I will explain this later in the course. But they don't have a routing table. So to specify the default gateway, you can't configure a default route. You have to use this command, IP default gateway and then put in the IP address. 172.16.3.1. Okay, and I will do the same on A switch two. Compete. Oops, compete. IP config. Nope, that is the PC's IP default gateway 172.16.3.1. There it is. Okay, so next we would go on to verify our HSRP configuration and do some more advanced configuration like priorities and preemption. But we'll end it here. Now just out of curiosity, I want to grade the lab and see if we did the configurations correctly. It won't say that we completed the entire lab correctly because we haven't finished it yet, but let's see how we did. So click on grade lab here. And as expected, you missed one or more commands in the lab. That's okay, we didn't finish it yet. So client one and client two, the configuration is correct. So that means we configured the default gateway correctly. A switch one and A switch two, same. The configurations are correct. So that means our, here, IP default gateway command was correct. D switch one and D switch two, we are missing commands. Yeah, priority and preemption. However, the stand by three IP command is correct. So that means we did that step correctly. Okay, so that's a quick look at Boseon NetSim, not for CCNA this time, but for CCNP. So if you want to get a copy of Boseon NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Cepisol, Justin, Loki, the Gangai, Neil, Alexa, Prakash, Nasir, Erlison, Magrithya, Apagi, Wasim, Marco, Florian, Daeming, Vincatech, Koni, Joshua, Gilmar, Samil, Ed, Value, John, Fanny, Dart, Scott, Hassan, Gerard, Joyce, Marik, Velvedjakum, Seymode, Johann, Mark, Yusif, CD, Boseon Software, Chalzetta, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. One of you is still displaying as Channel Fail to Load. If this is you, please let me know, and I'll see if YouTube can fix it. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, September 22nd, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.