VIDEO 66: Free CCNA | Configuring IPv6 (Part 2) | Day 32 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zfhpd7dl6QI
CCNA Domain: 1-Network_Fundamentals
Duration: 21m 2s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos, thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course, so you can try it out yourself in packet tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up a Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like packet tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice, configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In today's video, we'll try a few methods of configuring IPv6 addresses, as well as IPv6 static routes. We haven't covered IPv6 static routes yet, but using the contact-sensitive help in iOS, you'll be able to figure it out. Step 1 says to use EUI64 to configure the appropriate IPv6 address on the G01 interface of R1 and R2. But before actually configuring the addresses, we should examine the MAC address of each interface and calculate the EUI64 interface ID that will be configured. So let's do that on R1 first. Enable. To check the MAC address of an interface, use Show Interfaces G01. Up here, near the top of the output, you can see the MAC address. So let's calculate the EUI64 interface ID and the IPv6 address that will be configured. In this document, I've written out the process. Here's the MAC address, split it in half, and then insert FFFE in the middle. Finally, invert the seventh bit, which makes the zero a two. That's the EUI64 interface ID. Add the network prefix, and this is the IPv6 address that will be configured on R1's G01 interface. So let's configure it. Back to R1, conf T. Before configuring the interface, I should enable IPv6 routing, since we'll try out some pings later. IPv6 unicast routing. Okay, now let's configure the interface. This G01, IPv6 address, 2001, DB8, double colon slash 64. That's the network prefix. Finally, just add EUI64 to the end. Okay, let's check the address that was configured. Do show IPv6 interface brief. There it is. Notice that a link local address was automatically configured also. And it uses the same EUI64 interface ID, but a different network prefix, beginning with FE80, because it's a link local address. Now let's do the same process on R2. Enable. Show interfaces G01. Here is the MAC address of G01. Let's return to that document. Here is that same MAC address. To get the EUI64 interface ID, split it in half, insert FFFE in the middle, and finally invert the seventh bit. That's the EUI64 interface ID. If you add the network prefix to it, you get the IPv6 address that will be configured on R2's G01 interface. Let's go back to the CLI of R2. Conf T. Once again, let's enable IPv6 routing. IPv6 unicast routing. Now let's configure the interface. Interface G01. IPv6 address 2001 DB801. Double colon slash 64. EUI64. Okay, let's check the address. Do show IPv6 interface brief. There it is. And a link local address was configured to. In step two, we are told to configure the appropriate IPv6 address and default gateway on PC1 and PC2. Since we're already on R2, I'm going to copy the address we just configured because this will be PC2's default gateway. Now let's go on PC2. First, we must enter the default gateway here. I'll paste in R2's address. Now let's configure PC2's own address. It's 2001 DB8.01. Double colon 2 with a slash 64 prefix length. Notice that it already has a link local address based off of the MAC address, which you can see up here. Okay, that's all for PC2. Now I'll return to R1. Let me copy the IPv6 address of its G01 interface. Now I'll configure PC1. First, I'll paste R1's IP address as the default gateway. Next, I'll configure PC1's address. 2001 DB8. Double colon 2 slash 64. Okay, that's all for step two. Step three says to enable IPv6 on the G00 interface of R1 and R2 without explicitly configuring an IPv6 address on them. I'll do that on R1 first. Interface G00. To enable IPv6 on an interface, use this command, IPv6 enable. That's it. That will automatically configure an IPv6 address on the interface. What kind of IPv6 address? It's a link local address. Let's check. Do show IPv6 interface brief. There it is. And notice the EUI64 interface ID is different than G01s, because the interfaces have different MAC addresses. Okay, next I'll do the same on R2. Interface G00. IPv6 enable. Let's see the address that was configured. Do show IPv6 interface brief. There it is. A link local IPv6 address beginning with FE80. Finally, step four says to configure static routes on R1 and R2 to enable PC1 to ping PC2. We'll cover IPv6 static routes in day 33, but let's get a little preview. There are multiple ways to configure this. For example, we could configure a default route on each router, but I'll just configure a route to each specific subnet. First, let me copy the link local address that was just configured here on R2. I'll use it as the next hop for R1's route. Now I'll go on R1. Let me exit back to global config mode. The command to configure on IPv6 static route is IPv6 route. Now I'll use the context sensitive help, the question mark to see what's next. Just like in IPv4 routes, we have to configure the destination. That is 2001 DB801 double colon slash 64. Now let's see what's next. So we can configure an exit interface or the next hop. I'll set the next hop as the link local address of R2 by pasting it here. Okay, let's try to enter the command, but an error message is displayed. Interface has to be specified for a link local next hop. So when using a link local address as a next hop, you can't just specify the address. You have to specify the interface too. If I use the context sensitive help, you'll see that I can't enter the interface here. So I need to put it before the next hop. Okay, so that's the route here on R1. Now I'll scroll up and copy the link local address of R1's interface so I can use it as the next hop on R2. Now let's configure the route on R2. Exit IPv6 route 2001 DB8 double colon slash 64, then the exit interface G00. Finally, I'll paste in R1's link local address. Okay, that's all. So let's test out these routes by pinging from PC1 to PC2. Pinging 2001 DB8 01 double colon 2. Okay, PC1 is able to reach PC2. So in this lab, we configured IPv6 addresses using IPv6 address EUI 64 enabled IPv6 on an interface without manually configuring an address and then tried out IPv6 static routes. In day 33, we'll go in depth about IPv6 static routing. Now let's take a look at a lab in Boson NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview. The lab we're doing today is configuring IPv6 1. Here's the objective. Understand and implement IPv6 addressing on the network and implement RIPNG to implement dynamic IPv6 routing. Now dynamic routing in IPv6 isn't actually on the CCNA exam topics, but let's take a quick look at it in this lab. All of the commands you need to know are listed here. IPv6 router RIP, IPv6 RIP enable, so you can complete this lab even if you haven't actually studied RIPNG yet. I hear the IP addresses currently configured. As you can see, IPv4 is already enabled on the network. We're going to add IPv6 on top of that. And the lab tasks. Task 1, examine the initial network configuration. Task 2, explore IPv6. Task 3, implement IPv6. And finally task 4, verify IPv6. So this is a pretty big lab. For this lab preview, let's just do task 3, implement IPv6. So let's do some configurations. So part A, implement IPv6 addressing. Step 1, you will implement IPv6 addressing on the WAN links that connect the Tampa or Lando, Daytona and Miami routers. Okay, so these four routers, just these WAN links. You will not implement IPv6 addressing on the WAN link that connects the Miami and Key West routers or on the LANs. Okay, and this diagram and the table show the IPv6 addresses we will configure. Okay, review the commands used to assign an IPv6 address to an interface. Compare these commands to the commands you currently use to assign IP addresses to an interface. So this means the commands you currently use refers to IPv4 addressing. And the commands are quite similar. IPv4 uses IP address. IPv6 uses IPv6 address. And most commands are like that. They're almost identical between IPv4 and IPv6. But for IPv6, instead of IP, you have to enter IPv6. Okay, on Tampa or Lando, Daytona and Miami, enable IPv6 routing. Okay, let's do that. Here on Tampa, oh, that's right, there's a password on these routers. Okay, the console password is admin and the enable password is Cisco. Okay, admin enable Cisco and let's configure IPv6 routing. Okay, that's it for Tampa. Next up or Lando. Admin. Okay, that's all for Orlando. We aren't configuring it on Key West. So I'll go to Daytona next. Admin enable Cisco. IPv6 unicast routing. And finally, the Miami router. Okay, so let's see what's next. On Tampa or Lando, Daytona and Miami, assign the appropriate IPv6 addresses, refer to the IPv6 addresses table. Okay, so we will configure those addresses. I'm on Miami, so I'll start here. First interface 0, 0, 0. IPv6 address, 2001, 0, 1, 3, double colon 2 slash 64. Next, 0, 0, 1. IPv6 address, 2001, 0, 1, 2, double colon 1 slash 64. All right, next, I'll go to Daytona. Interface 0, 0, 0. IPv6 address, 2001, 0, 1, 0. Double colon 2 slash 64. Interface 0, 0, 1. IPv6 address, 2001, 0, 1, 2. Double colon 2 slash 64. Okay, next up or Lando. Interface 0, 0, 0. IPv6 address, 2001, 0, 1, 1. Double colon 2 slash 64. Next up, 0, 0, 1. Okay, last one is Tampa. 0, 0, 0. And 0, 0, 1. Okay, that's it. Next, implement IPv6 routing. So this is what we haven't covered, and it actually isn't on the CCNA exam, but it's good to know. So step one, updated routing protocols, capable of working with IPv6 network addresses, must be used in order for IPv6 routes to be exchanged with other routers. You will implement RIPNG, RIP Next Generation in this lab. RIPNG can function with IPv6 addresses. Okay, number two, identify the commands you should issue to enable IPv6 dynamic routing with RIPNG. How do these commands differ from the commands you would issue to configure interfaces for RIP with IPv4? And then we will configure RIPNG on the four routers and use boson as the process identification string. So you can see those commands up here. We need to know just two commands. IPv6 router RIP process name, this enables RIPNG on the router. And the big difference here is the process name. So in IPv4, you could only have one RIP process running out of time. You would use the command router RIP, and then you would enable RIP on the interfaces with the network command. However, in RIPNG, you enable RIPNG directly on the interfaces with IPv6 RIP, followed by the process name, followed by enable. Okay, so I'll start here on Tampa. Now I believe that we could just enable it directly on the interfaces, and the process will be automatically created. So we don't have to use this IPv6 router RIP command. Let's see if I'm correct about that. Interface range, 0, 0, 0 to 1. Oh, I can't use the interface range command. All right, so, interface 0, 0, 0. That might be something in NetSim, I'm not sure about that. Interface 0, 0, 0, IPv6 RIP. And the process name it said to use boson, and then enable. And then I'll do that on 0, 0, 1. I'll use the up arrow to use the same command. Okay, now let's see if RIPNG was enabled by configuring it on the interfaces. Show IPv6 protocols. Protols, protocalls. IPv6 routing protocol is RIP boson. Okay, looks like it's enabled. So let's do that on the other routers. Here on Orlando, IPv6 RIP boson, enable, interface 0, 0, IPv6 RIP boson, enable. Okay, then Daytona, IPv6 RIP boson, enable, interface 0, 0, IPv6 RIP boson, enable. And then Miami, IPv6 RIP boson, enable, 0, 0, 0, IPv6 RIP boson, enable. Okay, so let's see if they're actually exchanging routes. Show IPv6 route. Okay, looks like Tampa has learned a RIP route here. It might take some more time for it to learn the other routes. How about on Orlando? Show IPv6 route. Yep, we're getting some RIP routes. Looks good. How about Daytona? And show IPv6 route. Okay, same thing here. And Miami, show IPv6 route. Okay, we're getting RIP routes. Looks good. Okay, so to summarize, to configure RIP and G, you can create the process from global config mode with IPv6 route or RIP followed by the process name and then enable it directly on interfaces with IPv6 RIP process name, enable. However, if you enable it directly on the interface, the process is automatically created so you don't actually need to enter this command. Okay, so I think that's all for that step. Yet we just did step two and step three. We enabled RIP and G on the routers and used boson as the process ID. Okay, next up, we would verify our configurations, verify the addresses, test the pings, but I'll leave it here for today. Okay, so if you want to get boson net sim, follow the link in the video description. As you can see, these labs are quite long, quite detailed, much more extensive than my packet tracer labs, so I highly recommend boson net sim for the CCNA. Once again, if you want to get boson net sim, follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to L33 America, Brandon, Magrae Thia, Angiabulo, Benjamin D. Pack Cepi so Justin Neil, Prakash Nasir, Erlison Apagi, Wasim, Marco, Florian, Daming, Joshua, Gilmar, Samil, Ed, Value, John, FunnyDarts, Scott Hassan, Marik, Velvajaykum, Seymode, Mark, Yusif, CD, boson software, Chalzetta, Devon, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. One of you is still displaying as channel failed to load. If this is you, please let me know and I'll see if YouTube can fix it. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, October 24th, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.