VIDEO 72: Free CCNA | Extended ACLs | Day 35 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1cuMzWBrEYs
CCNA Domain: 5-Security
Duration: 22m 8s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up a Bosons NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting, but also deep in your understanding of the exam topics. I use it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we will configure a couple extended ACLs to fulfill the network policies listed here. Hosts in 172.16.2.0-24 can't communicate with PC1. Hosts in 172.16.1.0-24 can't access the DNS service on server 1. DNS is something we will cover later in the course, but even if you don't totally understand the protocol yet, you can use extended ACLs to block it. The third requirement is that hosts in 172.16.2.0-24 can't access the HTTP or HTTPS services on server 2. As you probably know by now, HTTP and HTTPS are used to access web pages. As I have said a few times, ACL configuration is flexible, and there are often multiple valid solutions. In this video, I'll show you my solution. I will configure two ACLs on R1, one to fulfill the first and third requirements, and then another to fulfill the second requirement. I'll start with the second requirement. Hosts in 172.16.1.0-24 can't access the DNS service on server 1. First let me briefly show how DNS works. I'll go on PC1. Then open the config tab, and you can see that I have specified 192.168.1.100 server 1 as PC1's DNS server. DNS, domain name system, lets you specify names instead of IP addresses as destinations. Let me show an example. Go to desktop, then command prompt. Let's try a ping to PC2. However, instead of pinging PC2's IP address, I'll specify the name PC2. Now this ping will take a little longer than usual. Currently PC1 is contacting server 1 to learn what the IP address of PC2 is. Although using names like google.com or youtube.com is easier than remembering IP addresses for us humans, the computers themselves still need to know the IP address. That's what DNS is for. DNS servers contain a list of names and IP addresses. As you can see, although I specified ping PC2, PC1 asks server 1 what the IP address of PC2 is and learned that it is 172.16.1.2 as is displayed here. Okay, we'll cover DNS later. Now let's go on R1 and configure that ACL. Enable, conf t, I'll configure a numbered ACL. IP access list extended 100. So let's deny DNS. Deny. Now which protocol should we deny? If you remember correctly, DNS uses both TCP and UDP. Usually, UDP is used. However, there are cases where TCP is used to. So let's block both. I'll create an entry for UDP first. Then the source IP 172.16.1.0.0.0.0.0.255. We don't need to specify the source port, so next is the destination IP. Host 192.168.1.100. And finally, the port number. Do you remember DNS's port number? It's 53. So, EQ 53. Okay, now I'll use the up arrow and just change UDP to TCP. There's the second entry. Finally I'll configure permit IP any any to allow other traffic. Now let's apply the ACL. Following the rule of applying it close to the source, I'll apply it inbound on G00. Interface G00, IP access group 100 in. Okay, we have created and applied the ACL. Let's see if it works. I'll return to PC1. Let's try to ping server 2 this time. I'll try to ping it by name. Ping server 2. Now PC1 shouldn't be able to learn server 2's IP address. I'll click on this arrow to skip forward 30 seconds in packet tracer. And now when I return to PC1, you can see that it could not find host server 2. So PC1 wasn't able to access the DNS service on server 1 to learn server 2's IP address. How about if I just ping server 2's IP address? Ping 192.168.2.100. As usual, the first one or two might fail because the art process is a little slow in packet tracer. But then the ping succeeds. Okay, so we have fulfilled the second requirement. Now let's make an ACL for the first and third requirements. They both have the same source, 172.16.2.0 slash 24. So I'll combine them into one ACL. IP access list extended 101. So that first requirement is a simple deny statement for destination PC1. Deny IP 172.16.2.0.0.0.0.255. Host 172.16.1.1. That's it. We're denying all traffic. So I used IP as the protocol. Now let's prevent this subnet from using the HTTP or HTTPS services on server 2. First let me go on PC3 and show you a website. I configured an entry for Cisco.com on the DNS server server 1. So if I use the web browser here on PC3 and type the URL, Cisco.com, PC3 should learn server 2's IP address and be able to access the web page. It's just a sample web page which is in packet tracer by default. After we configure and apply the ACL, we shouldn't be able to access this web page. Now I'll return to R1. Let's deny HTTP and HTTPS. deny TCP because both HTTP and HTTPS use TCP. Then the source IP 172.16.2.0.0.0.0.255. Then the destination IP. Host 192.168.2.100. Finally I'll specify HTTP EQ 80. And I'll add another entry and change the port number 243 for HTTPS. Finally let's permit all other traffic. Permit IP any any. Now let's apply it close to the source. Inbound on G01 is best. Interface G01. IP access group 101 in. Okay, let's try to access that web page again. I'll return to PC3. First I'll close the web browser and open it again. Now let's try to access Cisco.com. So web page appears. PC3 is being blocked by the ACL we configured on R1 and the request tines out. Now how about the first requirement? Let's go to the command prompt here on PC3 and try to ping PC1. This subnet is still able to use the DNS service on server 1. So I'll try to ping it by name. Ping PC1. However, the ACL we just configured on R1 prevents PC3 from pinging PC1. But a ping to PC2 should work. Ping PC2. Wait a bit for PC3 to learn PC2's IP address from server 1 and then the ping is successful. So we have satisfied all requirements. Finally let's just view the ACLs. Let me return to R1 and I'll check. Do show access lists. Here they are and you can see the number of matches for each entry of each ACL. That's all for this lab. Next let's take a look at a lab in Boson NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview. As I said before there are 20 ACL practice labs in NetSim. So if you want lots of practice configuring and troubleshooting ACLs, NetSim is a great tool. Here is the lab topology. It's the same as the demo I showed you in day 34 with R1 and R2 and then PC1, 2 and 3 each in their own VLAN. This time the command summary shows us the protocol as well as the port numbers. So these are extended ACLs, not standard ACLs. Here are the IP addresses on each device. Notice that R2 is using Router on a stick here. FastEathNet10.2 and .3 because there are 2 VLANs here, 2 subnets connected to this single physical interface. And that will be important later. So remember that. Okay, and there is just a single task but it's pretty long. 18 steps. So for today's demo we will just complete up to step 7, which is on the appropriate device. We will apply extended ACL 101 to the correct interface in the correct direction. So we will create this ACL in step 6 and apply it in step 7. So let's quickly read that task. In this task you will configure multiple extended ACLs to permit and deny traffic from various protocols and sources across the topology. You should use extended ACL best practices wherever possible, such as applying the ACL as close to the source as possible. When all tasks are complete, each PC should remain able to ping the address of the loopback interface on each router. However, as I said before, we are not going to complete all the tasks just up to step 7. Pinks to other destinations should succeed or fail per the instructions below. Okay, so let's get started. First from each PC, verify that you can ping the loopback 0 interfaces of both R1 and Router 2. So I will open up a console connection to each of the PCs. And let's try those pings from PC1. Okay, it works and I'll try to ping Router 2. Okay, and just for the sake of time, I'll skip PC2 and you don't want to watch me do a bunch of pings. Let's try PC3. Okay, it can ping Router 1 and Router 2. I'm using Control-C. That's what this means. Control-C to stop the pings. After I get a reply, that means the ping is successful, so I just cut it off early. Okay, next from each PC, verify that you can ping every other PC in the topology. Okay, from PC1, I'll ping PC2 and it works. Stop that ping and PC3. That works as well. So because we were able to ping and get a reply, we have verified two way connectivity between PC1 and PC2 and PC1 and PC3. So the only one we have to do is from PC2 to PC3. Okay, and we get a reply, so you've also verified two way connectivity between PC2 and PC3. Next up in steps 3, 4 and 5, we are going to attempt to tell net to Router 1 and Router 2 from different PCs. I showed you tell net briefly in the NetSim demo for day 34 and we will cover it more in depth later in the course. So first from PC1 to Router 2's, loop back interface, tell net 2.2.2.2. Okay, and because I get this password prompt to log in, that means the tell net was successful. I was able to connect to Router 2 with tell net. I just have to enter the password to log in and it works. It says up here, all passwords in this lab are configured to boson. Okay, and the prompt is now Router 2. I'll exit out of there and then from PC2 and PC3 tell net to Router 1. Okay, that works. And PC3. Okay, great. So step six. On the appropriate device, create extended ACL 101. The ACL should permit tell net traffic from PC2 and PC3 to Router 1's loop back zero interface. Limit the ACL you create to a single rule, specify the port number, source, wildcard mask and destination wildcard mask. Okay, so a single rule, single rule, single entry ACL, which allows both PC2 and PC3 to tell net to this address 1.1.1.1. So where should I create the ACL? What is the appropriate device? Well, these are extended ACLs we're making. So we should create and apply them as close to the source as possible. In this case, the source is PC2 and PC3. So that means we should create the ACL on Router 2. Okay, I'll configure it right here from global config mode. Access list 101 permit. Now next is the protocol. Tell net uses TCP as its layer for protocol. So TCP and next up the source IP address 10.10. And we want to include both PC2 and PC3. So both of these subnets 10.10.2.102 slash 24 and 10.10.3.103 slash 24. So let me think about that. 10.10.2.0 and a slash 23 subnum asks should work. O.O.1.255. Okay, and we don't have to specify the source port number. So next is the destination IP address. 1.1.1.1 with a slash 32 wildcard mask. Finally, the destination port. This is where we specify tell net. So EQ to specify a single port. And now I can either specify the keyword tell net or tell net's port number, which is 23. I'll use the keyword tell net. There we go. Okay, now here's the really tricky part. We have to apply it to the correct interface in the correct direction, as it says here. Apply extended ACL 101 to the correct interface in the correct direction. So the interface that is connected to switch to and therefore PC2 and PC3 is this one here fastie to net 1 0. However, we cannot apply this ACL to the physical interface. That will not work. So we can either apply it inbound on both of these subinterfaces, fastie net 1 slash 0.2, 1 slash 0.3, or instead of doing that, if you want to apply it just to a single interface, we could also apply it outbound on this interface here. It's still pretty close to the source. Let's do that since it's simpler. We just have to apply it to a single interface. So I will apply it outbound on fastie net 0 0. So when these two PCs try to tell net to router 1, the ACL will be checked when router 2 forwards the traffic out of its fastie net 0 0 interface, which is here. It won't check it when it receives the traffic here on the fastie net 0 1 interface. Sorry, not 0 1 1 0. Okay, so interface at 0 0, IP access group 101 out. Okay, so let's try a ping from PC2 to router 1's loop x 0 interface. Okay, it's not working. What is that? It's because our ACL only permits tell net from PC2 and PC3 to router 1's loop back interface. However, the ACL is just a single line. That means any traffic that isn't that tell net traffic will be denied by the implicit deny at the end of the ACL. So currently, PC2 and PC3 will not be able to ping router 1. The task description here said that each PC should remain able to ping the address of the loop back interface on each router. So I assume later in one of the later tasks, we would fix that. But let me just check that PC3 also can't ping router 1's loop back interface. Okay, it also doesn't work. Now, how about tell net? Tell net should work. So I'll try to tell net from PC2 to router 1's loop back interface. And it works. Great. And how about PC3? Okay, it works also. And let's just take a look at that ACL in the Renekonfig of router 2. There it is. So we are permitting TCP traffic from this range of addresses here. 10.10.2.0 slash 23. 2 host 1.1.1.1.1. Destination port of 23 tell net. And all other traffic will be denied because of the implicit deny at the end of the ACL. Okay, so after that, there are many more tasks here. But we'll end today's lab demo here. And I will use Boson's grade lab function. Now, since we aren't done the lab, it says you missed one or more commands in the lab, but that's okay. I just want to check router 2's configuration. Did I get that correct? Oh, so I was right. So we did get that entry correct. Permitting the tell net traffic. But probably later in this lab in one of the later steps, looks like we add a permit ICMP any any command to allow those ping. Okay, so that's Boson NetSyn for CCNA. If you want to get Boson NetSyn, please follow the link in the video description. As you can see here, there are tons of practice labs for the CCNA, all very in depth, very good for testing your knowledge, and improving your skills of configuring and troubleshooting. Once again, follow that link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Samil, Erin, Junhong, in Jabolo, Benjamin, Cepizo, Justin, Prakash, Nasir, Erlison, Apigee, Marco, Daeming, Joshua, Gilmar, Ed, Value, John, FunnyDart, Velvedjecom, C-Mode, Mark, Yusif, Boson Software, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, December 6th, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a brave, honest, and honest person. I'm also a brave, verified publisher, and accept BAT or basic attention token tips via the brave browser. That's all for now.