VIDEO 74: Free CCNA | CDP & LLDP | Day 36 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4s8qqL7R9W8
CCNA Domain: 4-IP_Services
Duration: 24m 37s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Bosons NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice, configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we will use CDP to map out a network topology, and then disable CDP and switch the network to LLDP. As you can see, there are currently no IP address or interface labels in this network. In this lab, you will use CDP show commands and some other commands to map out this network. For the purpose of this video, I have pre-made all of the labels, just to make the video go more smoothly. But in the lab file I'm sharing with you, you'll have to make the labels yourself. There are four steps, but they can be divided into two parts. Steps 1 and 2 involve some CDP configurations, and using CDP to map out the network. Then in steps 3 and 4, we will disable CDP and enable LLDP instead. These network devices are all Cisco devices, so CDP is fine. But perhaps we are switching over to LLDP to prepare for adding devices from another vendor. I was planning to have you configure the CDP and LLDP timers in this lab too, but actually those configurations aren't supported in packet tracer. Still, remember those commands, CDP timer, CDP hold time, LLDP timer, LLDP hold time, and LLDP re-enit. Okay, now I'll do steps 1 and 2 on each device first. I'll start on PC1. Although this PC can't use CDP, we need to add its IP address to this network diagram. So I'll go to the CLI of PC1, then I'll use the command IPconfig, and now we get a few pieces of information. PC1's IP address is 192.168.1.1, and the subnet mask is slash 24. So that means this LAN is 192.168.1.0 slash 24. Also the default gateway is 192.168.1.254, which must be R1's IP address. So let me add those labels. Network address of 192.168.1.0 slash 24.1 for PC1's address, and 254 for R1's address. Now I'll move to switch 1. So we need to add interface labels for step 1, and disable CDP on the interface connected to PC1 for step 2. First let's add the interface labels. Enable. So let's check the CDP neighbor table. Show CDP neighbors. Okay, so we can see that switch 1's gig 01 interface is connected to R1's gig 02 interface. Let me add those labels now. G01 for switch 1, and G02 for R1. Now how about the interface connected to PC1? PC1 doesn't use CDP, so we have to use a different method. If there were many PCs connected to switch 1, we could check the MAC address of each PC, and then look at switch 1's MAC address table to see which interface is assigned to which MAC address. However, I'm keeping it simple in this lab. Only one PC is connected to each switch. So instead, let's just check which interface of switch 1 is in a connected state. Show interface's status. Gig 01 is connected to R1, and the only other interface in a connected state is fast ethernet 010, so that must be connected to PC1. I'll add that label now. F010 connected to PC1. But we're not done with switch 1 yet. Let's return to the CLI. Next I'll disable CDP on F010, as stated in step 2. Conf T, interface F010. First let's check with this command. Do show CDP interface F010. So CDP is enabled on the interface. Now let's disable it. No CDP enable. Remember CDP run is used in global config mode to enable or disable CDP itself. CDP enable is used in interface config mode to enable or disable CDP on individual interfaces. Okay let's check that it was disabled. Do show CDP interface F010. And now there is no output, so CDP was disabled on the interface. That's all for switch 1. Now I'll go on R1. Enable. First I'll add interface labels by checking show CDP neighbors. We already labeled G02 and switch 1's G01. So R1's G00 is connected to R3's G01. Let me label those. G00 for R1 and G01 for R3. Then R1's G01 interface is connected to R2's G00 interface. I'll label them. G01 for R1, G00 for R2. So we've added interface labels. Now let's check R1's IP address. First I'll use show interfaces G00. Up here at the top you can see both the IP address and the slash 30 prefix length. So IP interface brief is a convenient way to check IP addresses. But it doesn't show the prefix length. So I'll add the 10.0.13.0 slash 30 network label for this connection between R1 and R3 and .1 for R1's IP address. Now because this is a slash 37 there is only one more valid host address in the network. That is .2. So I'll add that label for R3's interface. However, just to practice CDP, let's confirm R3's address here on R1. Use the command show CDP entry R3. Up here under the device name you can see R3's IP address, 10.0.13.2. Now let's check R1's G01 interface. Show interfaces G01. The IP address is 10.0.12.1 slash 30. So let's add those labels. 10.0.12.0 slash 30 for the network address. .1 for R1. And once again this is a slash 30 network. So we know that R2's address is .2. Okay, let's speed things up for the remaining labels. I'll do PC2, switch to and R2 next. PC2 from the CLI of PC2 use IP config. So PC2's address is 192.168.2.1 slash 24 and R2's address is 192.168.2.254. Let's add those labels. First the network address of 192.168.2.0 slash 24 then .1 for PC2 and .254 for R2. Next I'll move on to switch to. Enable. Let's check CDP. Show CDP neighbors. Okay, here we can see that switch to G02 interface is connected to R2's G01 interface. Let's add those labels. G02 for switch to and G01 for R2. Sorry for the messy diagram. Sometimes it's difficult to make all of the text big enough for everyone to see while still fitting it all on one screen. Now which interface is connected to PC2? Show interfaces status. The fast Ethernet 01 interface is connected. So I'll add that label, F01. Finally let's disable CDP on that interface. Conf T, interface F01, no CDP enable. Okay, that's all for switch to. Next R2. All we need to check is the connection between R2 and R3. Enable. Show CDP neighbors. So R2's G02 interface is connected to R3's G02 interface. I'll add those labels now. G02 for both routers. Now how about the IP addresses? Let's check. Show interface G02. Okay, R2's IP addresses 10.0.23.1 slash 30. So we know the network addresses 10.0.23.0 slash 30. And R3's address must be 10.0.23.2. Let's add those labels. 10.0.23.0 slash 30 for the network. 1.1 for R2 and 2 for R3. That's all for R2. Next I'll do the same for PC3, switch 3, and R3. PC3 first. From PC3's CLI, use IP config. Okay, PC3's IP addresses 1.92.168.3.1 slash 24. And R3's IP addresses 1.92.168.3.254. Let's label them. 1.92.168.3.0 slash 24 for the network. Dot 1 for PC3 and Dot 2.5 for R3. Next I'll go on switch 3. Enable. Show CDP neighbors. Okay, switch 3's G01 interface is connected to R3's G00 interface. Let me label those. G01 for switch 3 and G00 for R3. Next, which interface of switch 3 is connected to PC3? Show interfaces status. Fast Ethernet 0.24 is connected, so I'll add that label. And finally, let's disable CDP on that interface. Conf T, interface F0.24, no CDP enable. Okay, we have successfully used CDP to map out the network and disabled CDP on interfaces connected to PCs. Steps 1 and 2 are complete. Next in steps 3 and 4, let's disable CDP and enable LLDP instead, enabling both LLDP transmit and receive on the interfaces connected to other routers or switches. First, let me clarify something about LLDP configurations. In the lecture, I said you have to enable LLDP globally and on each interface, but actually the LLDP run command should enable LLDP transmit and receive on each interface. This might depend on the model of the device. On some devices, LLDP itself is globally enabled by default. But on the ones I tested these configurations on, configuring LLDP run also enabled LLDP on each interface. For the purpose of this lab however, LLDP transmit and receive have been disabled and must be manually configured. The configurations are quite simple, so I'll go through these quickly. I'll start here on switch three. First, exit to return to global config mode. I'll disable CDP, no CDP run, and then enable LLDP, LLDP run. Now we need to enable LLDP on each interface connected to another network device, G01 only on switch three. Interface G01, LLDP transmit, LLDP receive. Okay, next are three. Enable, cough T, no CDP run, LLDP run, LLDP run, next I'll enable it on all three connected interfaces. Interface range, G00 to two, LLDP transmit, LLDP receive. Okay, R3 is done. Next I'll do switch two. Exit, no CDP run, LLDP run, and I'll enable it on G02. Interface G02, LLDP transmit, LLDP receive. Okay, next are two. cough T, no CDP run, LLDP run, and let's enable it on all connected interfaces. Interface range, G00 to two, LLDP transmit, LLDP receive. Okay, finally switch one and R1, switch one first. Exit, no CDP run, LLDP run, interface G01, LLDP transmit, LLDP receive. And last are one. Conf T, no CDP run, LLDP run, interface range G00 to two, LLDP transmit, LLDP receive. Okay, we've enabled LLDP on all devices. I'm going to switch to packet tracers simulation mode. As I click through here, you'll see various kinds of messages being sent. EIGRP, because I pre-configured EIGRP on the routers, in case you want to try out some pings. Also, STP and LLDP. You might see some DTP messages too. So with this we can confirm that CDP has been disabled, and LLDP has been enabled. If you want some additional practice, you could try checking the interface and IP address labels. This time using LLDP instead of CDP. But that's all for this lab. Next, let's take a look at a bonus lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview. The lab is simply titled Link Layer Discovery Protocol. Here is the lab topology. It's pretty simple, just two routers directly connected. As I've said before, NetSim has a wide variety of labs. Some of them are longer and more complex, and some of them are shorter and simpler, like this one. And here are the commands you need to know to complete this lab. You already know all of these commands. LLDP hold time, receive, run, timer, transmit, and some show commands. So there are three main tasks. Task one is configure LLDP. Task two configure LLDP on an interface, and task three tune LLDP timers. So it looks pretty long, but each of these steps is quite short and simple. So let's do the whole lab. So starting with task one, step one, it says up here, all steps in this task are performed on router one. So here we are. Step one, display global LLDP information is LLDP running. Let's check. Show LLDP. Okay, no, LLDP is not running at the moment. And then step two says enable LLDP. Conf T LLDP run. So that enables LLDP globally on the device. And as I clarified before, this also should enable transmit and receive on each interface. I think in the lecture, I said you have to enable it globally and then enable transmit and receive, but actually usually just LLDP run should be enough. But this might depend on the device model or iOS version. Okay, so display a summarized list or sorry, a skip step three issue the appropriate show command to verify that LLDP is enabled. So I'll do show LLDP once more and it is enabled. It says status active. Okay, now I'll show that LLDP neighbor list. Do show LLDP neighbors. How many neighbors have been discovered? Just one here, rather two. Okay, step five, display a detailed list of neighbors. Okay, so that is show LLDP neighbors detail. And what is the chassis ID of the neighbor discovered? So you might be wondering what that chassis ID is. That is this here. And what does that look like? It's a MAC address. So this is the MAC address of router two. Okay, how many seconds will elapse before router one describes previously received LLDP information for this neighbor? Okay, you might be wondering what that means. That is referring to the hold time. So it is currently the default of 120 seconds. But at the moment, there are 97 seconds remaining. Or when I did this show command, there were 97 seconds. If I do that again, now it's a different value. Now it's 93 seconds. Okay, so that is task one. Next task two, step one. Display LLDP information for the fast Ethernet zero zero interface. Okay, do show LLDP interface F zero zero. Okay, what fields indicate that fast Ethernet zero zero is receiving and sending LLDP advertisements. While you can see that both TX and RX are enabled. TX is currently idle, meaning it's waiting to send the next frame. And RX is in wait for frame state. And that means it is waiting for the next frame from router two. Okay, disable LLDP advertisements from being sent out of the fast Ethernet zero zero interface. Okay, interface F zero zero. And I will use no LLDP transmit. And that disables the advertisements out of the interface. Okay, and then in step four, let's check that they were disabled. Okay, so TX is now disabled. However, RX is still enabled. So router one will still be able to receive LLDP messages from router two, but it won't send any of its own messages to router two. Okay, and then step five says to configure router one to accept incoming LLDP advertisements. Well, it already is. RX is enabled. And to send LLDP advertisements on the fast Ethernet zero zero interface. Okay, so that means enable transmit once more. So LLDP transmit. And it's enabled again. Okay, finally, task three, tune LLDP timers. Step one, display global LLDP information. What is the default number of seconds that will elapse before an LLDP advertisement is sent? So that is by default 30 seconds. And next, what is the default number of seconds that will elapse before a receiving device should discard information received in a previously received LLDP advertisement from router one? That might be a little difficult to understand that is referring to the hold time. And that is by default 120 seconds. And there are the default timers 30 seconds for the advertisements, the messages, 120 second hold time, and also the re-initialization delay of two seconds, which isn't mentioned up here. Okay, and then in steps two and three, we are going to cut these defaults in half. So a 60 second hold time and 15 second message timer. Okay, so LLDP hold time 60 LLDP timer 15. And let's check do show LLDP. Okay, there are the new timers. Okay, so that's all for this lab. To finish up, let's use the grading function. And that is the icon up here. It says grade lab. So if I click on it, it tells us that we completed the lab successfully. And you can check the configurations of each device. Here's router one. And none of the configurations are highlighted either red or blue. So that means that we successfully completed the lab. Okay, so that's Boson NetSim for the CCNA. If you want to get Boson NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. There's over a hundred detailed guided labs. And it's included with a powerful network simulator. So I really highly recommend Boson NetSim for the CCNA or even CCNP after the CCNA. So once again, if you want Boson NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Magraithia, Samil, Aaron, Junhong, Eunjabelo, Benjamin, Sepiso, Justin, Prakash, Nasir, Erlison, Apagi, Marco, Daming, Gilmar, Ed, Valu, John, FannyDart, Veldagyakum, Simod, Mark, Yusif, Boson Software, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, December 19th, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.