VIDEO 76: Free CCNA | NTP | Day 37 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Miys7Ft9wWI
CCNA Domain: 4-IP_Services
Duration: 19m 8s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting, but also deeping your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we will configure NTP in this network. R1 will synchronize to server 1 over the internet, and then R2 and R3 will synchronize to R1. Unfortunately, some of the commands I showed you in the lecture aren't available in Packet Tracer, such as the clock summertime command, the NTP source command, and some others. But there are still many NTP configurations we can practice, so let's get started. In step 1, we will configure the time on R1, R2, and R3 to 12 p.m. on December 30, 2020. Note that we haven't configured the time zone yet, so this will be in UTC. I'll go on R1 first. Enable clock set 12,000, that's hours, minutes, and seconds, December 30, 2020. Let's check the clock. Show clocked detail. OK, the time is correct, and the source is user configuration. Later, we will configure NTP. However, something I didn't mention is that NTP can take quite a long time to synchronize. But if you manually configure the time on the device close to the time of the NTP server, the synchronization process will be a little quicker. I configured the NTP server, server 1, for the same time, so this should make it quicker. Actually while we're here, I'll do step 2 on R1 and configure the time zone. Conf T, clock time zone, JST 9. If you're not sure how many hours your time zone is offset from UTC, do a Google search to find out. Let's check once more. Do show clock detail. OK, so the clock is now 9 hours ahead of the UTC time I configured. Next I'll do R2. Enable. Clock set 12 o'clock. December 30, 2020. Enable. Clock set 12 o'clock. December 30, 2020. Enable. Clock set 12 o'clock. December 30, 2020. And the time zone. Conf T, clock time zone, JST 9. And then check. Do show clock detail. OK, looks good. And finally I'll do the same on R3. Enable. Clock set 12 o'clock. December 30, 2020. And the time zone. Clock, time zone, JST 9. And I'll check. Do show clock detail. OK, no problem. The clocks on R1, R2 and R3 don't match at the moment, but that's fine. That will be fixed when we enable NTP later. Step 3 is to configure R1 to synchronize to NTP server 1.1.1.1. That's server 1 here. So I'll return to R1 and do that. NTP server 1.1.1.1.1. That's it. Let's check. Do show NTP associations. OK, 1.1.1.1 was configured, but as you can see, the SIS-dot-peer asterisk isn't showing it. This can take quite a while, especially in packet tracer. So I'll click these arrows here a bunch of times to fast forward the simulation. OK, hopefully that's enough. I'll go back to R1, but the console has timed out because of inactivity. So I'll use Enable again and let's check. Show NTP associations. OK, the asterisk is there now. So what stratum is 1.1.1.1.1? It's stratum 1, as you can see here. So now that R1 is an NTP client, it is an NTP server also. What is it stratum? It should be 2 because it is syncing to a stratum 1 server. Let's check. Show NTP status. OK, that is correct. Stratum 2. And let's check R1's clock. Show clock detail. OK, the time source has changed to NTP. So that's all for step 3. In step 4, we must configure R1 as a stratum 8 NTP master. Why would we do this? R1 is already acting as an NTP server because it is syncing to server 1. So R2 and R3 should be able to use R1 as an NTP server. However, what if R1 stops being able to sync to 1.1.1.1? If we configure R1 as an NTP master, that can serve as a backup clock for R2 and R3 to sync to. So let's do that here on R1. Conf T, NTP master. It says to configure R1 as a stratum 8 master, and that is the default, so we don't need to specify the stratum. Next we must configure R2 and R3 to synchronize to R1 with authentication. OK, since I'm on R1 already, I'll configure the authentication here first. First enable NTP authentication. NTP authenticate. Then create the key. NTP authentication key. One, you can use whatever number you want. MD5 then the key itself. No password is specified in the instruction, so use whatever you'd like. I'll use Jeremy's IT lab. Finally I'll configure key 1 as a trusted key. NTP trusted key 1. OK, that's all for R1. Next I'll configure R2. Enable, Conf T. First I'll enable NTP authentication. NTP authenticate. Then create the key. NTP authentication key. One, MD5 Jeremy's IT lab. Then configure key 1 as trusted. NTP trusted key 1. Finally I'll configure R1 as R2's NTP server. NTP server 192.168.12.1 key 1. That configures R1 as R2's NTP server and specifies that R2 should use key 1 to authenticate R1. As the note says in step 4, the NTP source command isn't available in packet tracer. So instead of using a loop back interface, I just configured R1's G01 interface as the NTP server. The reason you need the NTP source command is that if you configure R1's loop back interface as R2's NTP server, but the replies from R1 come from the IP address on the physical interface, R2 won't sync to R1. Now I'll fast forward the simulation again and now hopefully R2 has sync to R1. Let's check. And show NTP associations. Yep, it has sync to R1 and let's check R2's clock. Show clock detail. Okay, the time source is NTP. Since I'm on R2, I'll do step 5 also, which is to configure NTP to update the hardware calendar. Conf T, NTP update calendar. Okay, now let me show you something strange about packet tracer. I just configured NTP update calendar, so let's check the calendar. Exit, show calendar. But it doesn't work. Show and I'll use the question mark. As you can see, there is no show calendar command in packet tracer. So there is the NTP update calendar command, but for some reason you can't even view the calendar. Okay, I'll do the same configurations on R3. Enable, Conf T, NTP authenticate, NTP authentication key, 1, MD5, Jeremy's IT lab, NTP trusted key, 1. And then I'll specify R1. NTP server, 192.168.13.1, key 1. It's pointless in packet tracer, but I'll update the calendar. NTP update calendar. That's it. Now I'll fast forward the simulation. And let's see if R3 synced to R1. Enable, Show NTP associations. Okay, looks good. And how about the clock? Show clock detail. Okay, the time source is NTP. Looks good. Once again, this is pointless in packet tracer, but I'll configure R1 to use NTP to update its calendar. Enable, Conf T, NTP update calendar. Okay, we have completed all of the steps. Originally, I had another step to configure a symmetric active peering between R2 and R3. But that command is also unavailable in packet tracer. But in this video, we practiced many of the NTP commands we looked at in the lecture video. That's all for this lab. Next, let's take a look at a bonus lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview. The lab I have selected is configuring NTP1. So NetSim for the CCNA actually has five labs for NTP, as you can see here. So I picked the first one. It seems to be a pretty simple lab about NTP. Here is the topology, three routers. And these are the commands you need to know. And these are all commands you already know. Clock set to set the time, NTP master, NTP server, and some show NTP commands. Okay, here are the tasks. Task one says, perform initial configurations. So in this task, you just configure the IP addresses on the interfaces and enable them. So I actually completed this task. Here, you can see the CLI of router one. So I finished this task and we can go straight to task two, configure NTP. So let's do that. Step one says is router one, router two, or router three, currently running NTP. Let me check with show NTP status. No, NTP is not enabled on router one, or router two, or router three. Okay, configure the date and time on router one to be July 25th, 2013. Well, that's my birthday, July 25th, 9am. Alternatively, you may use your local date and time. Okay, so I'll do that on router one. Clock set 9am, 25th July, 2013. Okay, let me see show clock. All right, looks good. Configure router one to be an NTP master using a stratum of three. Okay, conf T, NTP master, and here we specify the stratum number. Once again, the default, if you enter the command as is, the default is eight. So we want to set it to three. So NTP master three. Configure router two to be an NTP client. Okay, so I will use the IP address of router one's serial zero, zero, zero interface. Which is here. All right, conf T, NTP server, 10.0.1. Okay, and I'll leave it like that. I think in task three, we'll actually verify that this is working. So I'll go straight to step five. Configure router three to be an NTP client. You should use the address of router two's serial zero, zero, one interface. Okay, so that is this one here. Conf T, NTP server, 10.0.23.2. Okay, and that's it for task two. Okay, finally task three, verify NTP. On router one, observe the status of NTP. What are the stratum and reference peer address? Okay, show NTP status. Stratum is three because we configured NTP master three. And the reference clock is a loopback address on router one. Okay, let's check on router two. Show NTP status. Oh, they, okay, the clock is synchronized. So that means it is synchronized to router one. And the stratum is four as expected, one higher than router one. And also we can see the reference is router one's address. Okay, step three, verify that router one is the NTP master. Okay, well, I can see that here because that's router one's address, but I'll also check the association's table. Okay, so there it is. The address of router one, it is the master here. Notice that the output is a little different than in packet tracer or in the lecture video. This must be a different version of Cisco iOS. Okay, so that was step three. Step four, on router two, observe all NTP associations. Okay, well, I just did that. Or maybe step three was supposed to be on router one, whatever. I'll go on to step five and we'll check out router three. Okay, looks like it has synced to router two here. But I'll reference pure address and stratum. The stratum of its peer is four. So router three must be stratum five now. Yes, it is stratum five. Okay, in steps three, four and five in this task, you observed each router's NTP associations. Why were the reference pure addresses different on each router? Well, that is because they are syncing to different clocks. So router one is syncing to its internal clock. So the reference clock is a loopback address. Router two is syncing to router one. So the address is router one's address and router three is syncing to router two. So the address is router two's address. On router two and router three, display the clock and verify that the source of the time is NTP. Okay, show clock detail. Looks good. Source is NTP. And how about on router three? Okay, time source is NTP. So that's all for this lab. Now I will use the grade lab function by clicking this icon here and let's see if I did everything correctly. Okay, looks good. You completed the lab successfully. Notice that nothing is highlighted in the configurations of each device. If there are any missing commands or extra commands, they will be highlighted in red or blue. Okay, so that's a quick look at Boson NetSim for the CCNA. As I've said before, there are over 100 detailed guided labs like this. Some of them are simple, some are very complex, but they're all very useful to study for the CCNA. So if you want to get Boson NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Biraj, Magrae Thia, Samil, Junhong, Eunjebelo, Benjamin, Sepiso, Justin, Prakash, Nassir, Ellison, Apigee, Marco, Daming, Gilmar, Ed, Value, John, FunnyDart, Velva Jacob, Mark, Yusif, Boson Software, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way. December 31, 2020. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos.