VIDEO 82: Free CCNA | SNMP | Day 40 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8WxIytUdS4
CCNA Domain: 4-IP_Services
Duration: 13m 37s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course, so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up a Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. I used it myself when studying for my certifications, so I feel confident about recommending it to all of you. If you want to get your own copy of NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we'll configure SNMP, simple network management protocol. As I write at the top of the lab instructions, SNMP functionality is very limited in Packet Tracer, so unfortunately, all we can do is enter a couple commands and then check out a few things on PC1, the NMS. I was hoping to clarify some more things about SNMP configuration since I only briefly skimmed over it in the lecture video, but we won't be able to do that. But that's okay, you don't actually need to know about SNMP configuration for the CCNA exam, so don't worry about it. Okay, let's do step one and configure Read Only and Read Write Communities on R1. Enable, Comforte, SNMP Server, and I'll use the question mark here. Community. That's the only available command. No host command, so we can't even specify a server to send traps to. All we can do is configure communities here and then try a few things out on the NMS. So let's configure those communities. Community Cisco 1, R0, that's the Read Only string, and then Community Cisco 2, RW, the Read Write string. Okay, that's all we can do. Now I'll go on PC1. Click on Desktop, then Mib browser. This lets us view the different variables, the OIDs, in the Mib of R1. So up here, enter R1's IP address, 192.168.1.254. However, that's not all. Click on Advanced, and then enter those two communities we just configured. Cisco 1 for the Read community, and Cisco 2 for the Read community. I'll leave it at SNMPV1. I'm not sure if other versions would work in Packet Tracer. Okay, now let's explore some OIDs. First how long has R1 been running? What's the system up time? Open the Mib tree here, router standard Mibs, ISO, org, DOD, Internet, Management, Mib 2 system, and then here we can select Sysuptime. Then look at the top right. Notice the Get operation is already selected, so I'll just click on Go. And here you can see the OID, and the value for that OID. This is the current up time of R1. How long it has been turned on? Let's check another one. The Sys name variable will tell us R1's host name, which as you already know, is R1. Okay, let's check out some information about R1's interfaces. From interfaces, select IF number, and then send the Get. The value is 4, so R1 has 4 interfaces. Now I'll expand IF table here, and IF entry. Let's click on IF description, and send a Get. Now you can see a description of each interface. It has a VLAN1 interface, and 3 gigabit ethernet interfaces, 0, 0, 0, 1, and 0, 2. How about the IF type OID? Send a Get, and you can see the interface type. So these gigabit ethernet interfaces are copper, not fiber optic interfaces. How about IF admin status? Send a Get, and you can see that only this interface, which is G00, is up, because it is enabled and connected to switch one. So there are some other things we could check, but I'll leave it there. Now in step 3, let's use a set message to change a value on R1. I'll do a Get once more for the system name. Next, change the operation to set. First we have to select the data type. What kind of data is the host name? It is displayed here, octet string. So select octet string here. Then enter a new value. You can change it to whatever you like. I'll just change it to R11. Hit OK, then click Go to send the set. As you can see, the value has been changed to R11. Now if I return to the CLI of the router, and hit Enter, you can see the host name has changed to R11. Let's check the running config. New show run, pipe, include, host. So it has been changed in the config also. OK, so that was a brief look at SNMP in packet tracer. There's not much you can do with SNMP in packet tracer, but that's OK, since you don't actually need to know the configurations for the CCNA exam. Next, let's take a look at a practice lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. OK, here's today's Boson NetSim practice lab. As I've said before, SNMP configuration is not on the CCNA exam topics list. So there isn't an SNMP configuration lab in Boson NetSim for CCNA. There are plenty of labs for the IP services section of the exam, but not for SNMP because it's not on the exam topics list. So for today's demonstration, I will take a lab from NetSim for Encore 350-401. This is the core exam of the CCNP Enterprise certification. And they have a practice lab down here in the security section, configuring network device management, and that is this lab here. So this lab involves configuring VLANs, which you know, SNMP, which you know a little bit, and then TACX, which is triple A. That is something I will talk about in the security section of my course. OK, so these are the SNMP commands you need to know. SNMP server contact, community, host, and location. So these are commands I already covered. So you should be able to do this lab, even though you're not at the CCNP level yet, or at least do the SNMP portion, not the TACX portion. OK, so let's get on it. I already did TASC1 beforehand, which is configuring the management VLAN because I want to get straight to TASC2, which is configure and verify SNMP on router 1. And you can see what I did in TASC1. So I added another subinterface here on router 1 with an IP address, created VLAN 99 on these two switches and gave them IP addresses. OK, so let's configure and verify SNMP on router 1. OK, configure SNMP version 2 for read only access using the community string boson. OK, so the command for all of these is SNMP server, or it begins like that. And the community is boson, and it should be read only. Now we don't specify version 2 yet. We specify that in the SNMP server host command, I believe. So that should be correct. OK, then the contact address, SNMP server contact, SNMP at boson.com. OK, then the location, SNMP server location, R1, underscore SNMP. And then I have to configure PC1 to be the trap receiver. So that means the NMS network management station. And to use a community string of SNMP underscore logs. OK, we haven't configured that community string yet. But all right, let's see. SNMP server host 10.10.0.2. We're supposed to use version 2. So OK, it looks like they do not support that command. SNMP underscore logs is the community. And that's it. Yeah, OK. So on R1, verify that SNMP is enabled for the correct community string. So let's use some other show commands here. Show SNMP, and let's reconvene all of those things we just configured. SNMP community. There it is. Community name boson. And it is read only. And this looks like it is a default string. I did not configure that. Let me see if that's in the configuration. Include community. No, it is not in the configuration. So this looks like a default community string. OK, the location. Show SNMP location. Location. OK, that is correct. Show SNMP contact. SNP at boson.com. OK, verify that SNP is enabled for the trap receiver with the correct community string. Show SNMP host. OK, there it is. 10.10.0.2. It's PC1. Notice UDP port 162. That is the port that the NMS uses to receive SNMP messages. Traps are enabled by default. User. This is the community. And it says security model version 1. So this might not be working exactly as intended. Let me check. So I have not finished this lab, of course. There's still lots to configure. But I will use the grade lab function. And just see if I configure this SNMP portion correctly. Grade lab. OK, and let's check out router 1's configuration. OK, so this is part of the triple A configuration. TacX, that's also triple A. And here, this login authentication, triple A authentication. But looks like the SNMP configuration is correct. Sorry, there it is. OK, so that is this short SNMP practice lab. And we can also check out Boson's lab solutions down here. They have good explanations. Let me see here. Configure and verify SNMP on router 1. So basically it just shows the commands you have to use with some sample output of the show commands. OK, so that's a quick look at SNMP, simple network management protocol configuration in Boson NetSim. Once again, this is not part of the CCNA exam topics list. So you don't really have to worry about remembering these SNMP commands yet. But once you do go on to your CCNP studies, if you do, you'll definitely need to know them. OK, so if you want to get a copy of Boson NetSim for CCNA, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to HW, Brandon, Samuel, Aaron, tech Alameda, Marcel Magrathia, Kone, Donald, Seymode, Gustavo, Anthony, Baraz, Junhong, Benjamin, Sopiso, Justin, Prakash, Nassir, Erlison, Apigee, Marco, Daming, Gilmar, Ed, Value, John, FunnyDart, Velva Jacob, Mark, Yusif, Boson, Software, Devon Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, February 8, 2021. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.