VIDEO 86: Free CCNA | SSH | Day 42 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QnHq7iCOtTc
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 15m 50s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. It's a network simulator like Packet Tracer, but it's even better, and it includes all of these guided labs to not only help you get hands-on practice, configuring and troubleshooting, but also deepen your understanding of the exam topics. If you want to get NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. In this lab, we will use Laptop 1 to connect to Switch 2, a new Switch which has not yet been configured. Now in reality, you would probably configure the Switch before connecting it to the network, but I've already connected Switch 2 to R2. So let's get right into it. Step 1 says to connect Laptop 1 to Switch 2's console port and perform some basic configurations. So from Connections, I'll select the console cable. It's this light blue one. Then connected to Laptop 1's RS232 port and finally to Switch 2's console port. Now let's go on to Laptop 1, and from the Desktop tab, click on Terminal. These default terminal settings are correct, so click on OK. And now I'm in the CLI of Switch 2. Now let's perform some basic configurations. First up the hostname. Enable, ComfT, Hostname Switch 2. OK, you can see here the hostname has changed. Next, let's set an Enable Secret. If no Enable Secret is set, when you connect via Telnet or SSH, it won't let you access Privileged Exec Mode. Now there is a way to change that. You can manually set a high Privilege level on the user you create, but I'll cover that in a later video on security. For now, just make sure you have an Enable Secret configured so you can access Privileged Exec Mode when connecting remotely. So Enable Secret CCNA. These passwords are case sensitive, by the way. Next let's create a login account. I'll cover more details about user accounts in the security section, but the basic command is username, then the username, Jeremy in this case, then either password or secret. I'll use secret, and finally the password itself CCNA. As I mentioned earlier in the course, if you use password, the password is stored in plain text, not encrypted. Even if you use the service password encryption command, the encryption isn't as strong as if you use secret instead. Next let's configure Switch 2 for remote management, by configuring an IP address on its VLAN1 SVI. Underface VLAN1, IP address 192.168.2.253 255.255.255.255.0. In Packet Racer, at least this model of Switch, the SVI is shut down by default, so let's enable it with no shutdown. Then we get two Syslog messages, saying the interface came up. Okay, finally I'll configure Switch 2's default gateway. Exit. IP Default Gateway 192.168.2.254. If a host is in Switch 2's local subnet, Switch 2 can communicate directly with it. However, to communicate with hosts outside of the local subnet, Switch 2 needs to know its default gateway, so that's why we have to use that command. Next in Step 2, we'll configure a few security settings on the console line. Line console 0. There's only one console line, so the number is always 0. Now let's configure local authentication. Login local. So to connect to the console line, a user will have to use the account we configured before. Then I'll set the exec timeout. Exec timeout 5. Note that you don't have to specify 0 seconds. You can just specify 5 minutes and then hit Enter. Now to test the local authentication, I'll use End to return to a privileged exec mode and then Exit to Logout. Hit Enter and now I'm asked for a username, Jeremy and a password CCNA. Enable and again password of CCNA. Okay, now Step 3 is to configure Switch 2 for remote access via SSH. Next let me try to generate RSA keys. Conf T. Crypto key generate RSA. Since Switch 2 doesn't have a domain name yet, it can't generate the keys. So let's specify the domain name. IP domain name, Jeremy's ITlab.com. And now I'll try to generate the keys again. Crypto key generate RSA. And I'll specify the key modulus size of 2048 bits and it works. RSA keys are used for encryption and decryption by the way. I'll give some more detail in the security section of the course. Okay, now before configuring the VTY lines, I'm going to configure an ACL to limit access to PC1 only. I'll just use a simple standard ACL. List list 1, permit, host 192.168.1.1. I want to limit access to SSH only, no tell me. But we can do that with the Transport Input SSH command. So there isn't actually any need to specify the port in the ACL. Now I'll configure the VTY lines. Line VTY 015. First I'll configure local authentication. Login local. The same 5 minute exec timeout as on the console lines. Exec timeout 5. Then I'll restrict access to SSH only. Transport input SSH. And finally apply the ACL I configured before. Access class 1 in. That's it. So let's test it out. First I'll try from R2, which shouldn't be able to connect because of the ACL. First I'll try a ping. Enable. Ping 192.168.2.253. Okay so R2 is able to ping switch to. How about SSH? SSH, hyphen L, Jeremy 192.168.2.253. And the connection is refused by switch to. Perfect. Next I'll try from PC1, which should be able to SSH because the ACL permits PC1 only. First I'll try to ping switch to from PC1. Ping 192.168.2.253. The ARP process can be slow impact atracer. So a few pings might fail. But after that the pings will succeed. So PC1 can reach switch to with ping. How about SSH? SSH, hyphen L, Jeremy 192.168.2.253. Okay, enter the password of CCNA and we're in. So PC1 was able to connect to the CLI of switch to using SSH. In this lab we configured some console line security and enabled switch to for remote access via SSH. That's all for this lab. Now let's take a look at a bonus lab in Boson software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay here's today's Boson NetSim practice lab. The CLI of selected is configuring SSH. So we will configure SSH here on router 1 in this lab. These are the commands you need to know. We've covered almost all of the commands but there's one or two that I didn't cover in the lecture video. Okay, so those are the commands and the lab tasks. There are two tasks with quite a few steps but they're all pretty quick so I think we'll do the whole lab in this video. So let's get right to it. First from PC1 we'll attempt to ping this sub interface on router 1. So 10.10.0.1. And okay, so two of them timed out and then the others went through. So PC1 does have reachability. It can ping router 1. Next in step 2 we will attempt to telnet to that same interface. Okay. Okay, looks like it works. Now what is the password? It says right here Boson. Okay, so we are able to telnet to router 1. And then for step 3 I exited out of that telnet session. Step 4 we will try to SSH to router 1. And the connection is refused by router 1. Okay, so the SSH session fails. And step 5 on router 1. Okay, let me open up a connection. Determine whether SSH is enabled or disabled. Okay, so the command is show IP SSH. And it is disabled. Okay, attempt to enable SSH version 2. Was it enabled? Let me see. IP SSH version 2 is the command. And it tells us to create RSA keys to enable SSH. Okay, so next in step 7 let's create those RSA keys. Crypto key generate RSA. But it doesn't work because router 1 does not have a domain name configured. So I will configure that. IP domain name boson.com. And then one more time in step 9 we will create those RSA keys. And it works. So the modular size is 1024 bits. Okay. Next step 10 configure an SSH session timeout of 90 seconds. Okay, so this is a command I didn't mention in the lecture video. It is actually first let me check this second part. What is the default and maximum timeout value? You can view that with this command again here 120 seconds. So to configure it it's IP SSH timeout. And we'll set it to 90. Okay. And then finally enable SSH version 2. So we get already is enabled. It says it here, but I'll enter that command once more. IP SSH version 2. Okay. Okay, step 12 configure a local username that has a password of boson and privilege level 15. Okay, so we will configure a privilege level. I didn't mention this yet, but the command is username, admin, privilege, 15. It says password, so not secret password, boson. Okay, and then step 13 we will configure the VTY lines to allow only SSH. So, 015 and transport input SSH. Okay, so now let's try that SSH again in task 2, verify SSH access. So from PC1, let's try that again. Same command and it works. We are asked for the password. That means we were able to connect. Password is boson and there we go. Oh, no password set. Okay. While the SSH session is active, verify the SSH version and key size used for the session. So we didn't set an enable password, so I can't enable. I could go straight to router 1. Here, I tell you what. Enable secret boson and then go back to the SSH session here on PC1. And now we are able to use enable. The password is boson. There we go. Show SSH. Give us information about the current SSH sessions. So this is different than show IP SSH. Show SSH tells you about the current connections. So connection 0 is using version 2. This is the kind of encryption used. It gives us information about the state and the username. Okay, while the SSH session is active, determine the username. I just pointed that out. It's here. Admin. Exit the SSH session. And then attempt to tell net. Okay, so we configured transport input SSH. So this should fail. Tell net 10.10.0.1. And the connection is refused. Okay, so that was a quick look at boson software's NetSim for CCNA. As you can see here, there are tons of practice labs for the CCNA. So if you want some extra guided detailed practice labs, I highly recommend boson NetSim. If you want to get NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Raj, Kenneth, Shamis, HW, Brandon, Samil, Aaron, Marcel, Kony, Donald, Seymode, Gustavo, Anthony, Junhong, Benjamin, Cepizo, Justin, Prakash, Nassir, Erlison, Marco, Daming, Jill, Mar, Ed, Value, John, FunnyDart, Velva, Jacob, Mark, Yusif, boson software, Devon, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way. February 25th, 2021. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or Basic Attention Token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.