VIDEO 88: Free CCNA | FTP & TFTP | Day 43 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9PLvA2wZ28
CCNA Domain: 4-IP_Services
Duration: 15m 36s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course so you can try it out yourself in Packet Tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Bosons NetSim for the CCNA. It's a network simulator with tons of guided labs covering all of the topics you need to know for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. In this lab, we'll use TFTP and FTP on R1 and R2 to get updated iOS image files and then reboot the routers with the new version. First let's take a look at server one. On the Services tab, if I click on TFTP, you can see at the top that the TFTP service is enabled by default. So server one will respond to any TFTP clients trying to download or upload files. And down below is a list of files currently on server one. These are operating system files for various kinds of devices. The one we'll be copying to R1 and R2 is this one here. The same one is in the lecture video. Okay, then I'll click on the FTP tab. The FTP service is enabled by default. And because FTP uses username and password authentication, there is a list of FTP users here. The default username and password in packet tracer is Cisco and Cisco. But I created this one, username Jeremy password CCNA. And below that, the same OS files are available. Step one of the lab is to configure IP addresses and any necessary routing to allow full connectivity. For the purpose of this video, I've already done that. I configured IP addresses on server one, R1 and R2, and configured a static route to 10.0.0.0 slash 24 on R2. So let's go on to step two. On R1, I'll use TFTP to get the new iOS file from server one. First I'll check the current version on R1. Enable, show version. And check the top line of the output. So the current version is 15.1. And the file I'm going to download from server one is 15.5. Let's check the current file in flash. Show flash. There it is. Okay, let's copy that new file into flash. The command is copy TFTP flash. Now server one's address 10.0.0.1. Now the name of the file we want to copy. I copied the name beforehand, so I'll just paste it in here. And now I'm asked what name I want to save the file as. The default option is in the square brackets here. I'll just hit enter to use that file name. And this should only take a few seconds. Okay, now the file has been copied into the flash of R1. Let's check. Show flash. There it is. So next let's configure R1 to boot with this new version of iOS. Conf T, the command is boot system flash. And then the file name. I'll paste it here again. Now I'll exit out. And before reloading the system, I must make sure to save the config or else the boot system command won't take effect. Right. Okay, finally I'll use reload to restart the router. Rebooting a real router can take several minutes. But fortunately in packet tracer, the process is quite fast. So let's check to make sure that R1 is now using the new version of iOS. Enable. Show version. Okay, R1 is now using the newer version of iOS. So the final step here on R1 is to delete the old file from flash. Show flash. So I'm just going to copy the file name here. And then delete it with delete flash with a colon and then paste in the file name. Then confirm that I really want to delete it. And now let's check. Show flash. Okay, the old iOS file is now gone. Now I'm going to copy the file name of the new iOS version again, since I'll use it on R2. Okay, that's all for R1. On R2, we'll do basically the same thing. But let's do it using FTP instead of TFTP. First, let's check R2's current version. Enable. Show version. R2 is also using 15.1. To use FTP, let's configure the username and password. Conf T. IP FTP username, Jeremy. IP FTP password, CCNA. That's it. Now we can copy the file just like in TFTP. Exit? So let's get that iOS file from server one. FTP Flash. Enter server one's IP address, 10.0.0.1, and then I'll paste the file name. And hit enter to use the same file name here on R2. Okay, now in packet tracer, FTP is actually much slower than TFTP. In fact, I thought it wasn't working since it takes so much longer than TFTP. But be patient and it will work. I'm going to pause my recording now and return when the transfer finishes. Okay, the transfer finished successfully. Let's check the file in Flash. Show Flash. There it is. Now just like on R1, I'll configure R2 to boot using this iOS file. Conf T. Boot system flash. And then paste in the file name once again. Then exit and write to save the configuration. Now let's reload R2. Reload. Once again, this should only take about 10 seconds or so in packet tracer. But on a real router, it will take several minutes. So let's check if R2 is now using the new version of iOS. Enable. Show version. There it is. Version 15.5. To finish up, let's delete the old iOS file from Flash. Show Flash. Then copy the file name and delete it with delete Flash and paste in the file name. And that's it. Let's check. Show Flash. Okay, the file has been deleted. So in this lab, we practiced copying files from a server using TFTP and FTP. We also updated the iOS version of these routers and removed the old iOS files from Flash. That's all for this lab. Next let's take a look at a bonus lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview. The lab is trivial file transfer protocol, TFTP. So in this lab, we will use TFTP to backup router 4's configuration file. So this is another use for TFTP or FTP. Not to download new versions of iOS, but to backup files, for example, the device's configuration. So let's go right to the lab tasks. There are eight lab tasks and we'll do all of them. So step one has us configuring the IP address and default gateway on PC1 and PC3. These two PCs here. So I will open the CLI of PC1 and PC3. And the commands to do this in Boson NetSim are IP config slash IP. Okay, that configures PC1's IP address. And then IP config slash DG to configure the default gateway. So that's PC1. Next PC3. Okay, so that's step one. Next step two on router 4, attempt to ping PC1. The ping should be successful. Okay, so from router 4, I'll ping PC1. Let me open the CLI of router 4. Oh, there's a password. Okay, the password is Cisco. And let's ping PC1. Okay, no problem. Step three on router 4, copy the running configuration to the TFTP server. Okay, so I'm already on router 4. The command is copy. And then the source this time is the running configuration. So copy running config and the destination will be TFTP. And then the address is PC1's address 192.168.1.2. Okay, the destination file name, I'll name it R4config. All right, there we go. Okay, next on the TFTP server, which is PC1, verified that router 4's configuration has been successfully backed up. Okay, so the command to do that in NetSim is show TFTP configs. And as it says here, that is not a standard PC command. It is just a command used in Boson NetSim. So let's check, show TFTP configs. And there is the file, R4config, and here's the file size. Okay, next, step five. In the following steps, you'll restore the configuration you saved on the TFTP server to NV RAM. That's where the starter config is saved on router 4 and verified that the starting configuration was updated successfully. Okay, so first it has us change the host name to main router. Okay, so when we backed up the config of router 4, the host name was router 4. So in this file here, R4config, the host name is saved as router 4. But now we're going to change it to main router. Okay, and now we are going to restore the configuration from the TFTP server to the NV RAM of router 4. So the command is copy, and the source is TFTP. And we're going to save it to the startup config, which is in NV RAM. The address is 1.2.1.6.1.2, and the source file name is R4config. Okay, there we go. You should now see the restored configuration file in NV RAM. Does Netsim have show NV RAM? Maybe no, let me see show NV RAM. It does not, but we can just do show starter config. And the host name in this config file is router 4, as you can see here. But the host name is still main router because that's in the startup config file. It's not in the running config. So in step 7, we're going to issue the copy startup config running config command to apply that configuration to the running config. So copy startup config running config. And now the host name changes back to router 4. Okay, finally step 8. Is it necessary to clear router 4's NV RAM in order to copy a file into it? Explain why or why not. Okay, so I have not covered this in the course. Let me show you Bosn's explanation. So it is not necessary to clear router 4's NV RAM in order to copy a file into it. So when you copy a file into NV RAM, it totally overrides that file. So if there's a startup config and you copy a new config to that file, the old file is totally deleted and replaced with the new file. However, as it says here, when you copy a file into DRAM, or the running configuration, which is in DRAM, the files merge. So the new file doesn't totally replace the original file. They merge, they become combined. Anyways, you don't have to know that much detail, I think, for the current CCNA exam. But it's an interesting point. Okay, so that's all for this lab. Since we did all of the tasks, let's check with the grade lab function here. So I'll click on this button, and we completed the lab successfully, perfect. So all of the configurations are correct. Okay, so that was Bosn's NetSim for CCNA. I think this is a great resource for the CCNA. There's 100 plus guided detailed labs like this, covering all of the topics you need to know for the CCNA. If you want to get Bosn on NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Abraham, Sergey, and Joku, Victor, Roger, Raj, Kenneth, Chames, HW, Brandon, Samil, Aaron, Marcel, Kony, Donald, Seymode, Gustavo, Anthony Junhong, Benjamin, Cepizo, Justin, Prakash, Nassir, Ellison, Marco Daming, Ed, Value, John, FannyDart, VelvaJaykum, Mark Yusif, BosnSoftware, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way. March 14th, 2021. If you signed up recently and your name is it on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a brave verified publisher, and accept bat or basic attention token tips via the brave browser. That's all for now.