VIDEO 94: Free CCNA | Voice VLANs | Day 46 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kGX76QNIjsE
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 20m 18s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos, thanks for your help. Also, remember to sign up via the link in the description to get all of the lab files for this course, so you can try it out yourself in packet tracer. If you want more labs like these, I highly recommend picking up Boson's NetSim for the CCNA. It's a network simulator with tons of guided labs covering all of the topics you need to know for the CCNA. Click the link in the video description to check it out. In this lab, we'll configure voice VLANs and then observe some traffic in the network. There are two PCs, each connected to an IP phone, and the IP phones are connected to switch one. Switch one is a multi-layer switch, but we won't be using its layer three capabilities in this lab. I selected this model because it supports P O E power over ethernet. So if I click on phone one, for example, you can see the power cable is not connected. However, because switch one supports P O E, phone one is on and receiving power via the ethernet cable. So instead of switch one acting as the router, we'll configure router on a stick between switch one and R one. First, I'll configure switch one. Enable. Conf T. I'll configure G102 and three first, connected to the IP phones. Interface range, G102 to three. Switch port mode access. Now the date of VLAN is VLAN 10 as I indicate in the diagram. So switch port access VLAN 10 and the voice VLAN should be VLAN 20. So switch port voice VLAN 20. Okay, that's all of the configuration needed on these interfaces. Next we have to configure router on a stick between switch one and R one. Although we won't actually be sending any traffic between subnets in this lab, we need to make sure that phone one and phone two can reach R one. I pre-configured some telephony settings on R one, so it can tell phone one and phone two how they should configure themselves. Those configurations are beyond the scope of the CCNA, so I won't cover them, but you can check out R one's running config if you want to see what configurations I did. Okay, let's configure switch one's trunk. Interface G101. Switch port trunk encapsulation.1Q. Switch port mode trunk. Now by default, all VLANs are allowed, but it's best to limit the allowed VLANs to only those you need. So switch port trunk allowed VLAN 1020. Okay, that's all of the configuration needed on switch one. Next I'll configure R one's end. Enable, Conf T. Interface F00, no shutdown. Okay, next I'll configure two subinterfaces for router on a stick. Interface F00.10 encapsulation.1Q.10. IP address 192.168.10.1 255.255.255.0. That's for the data VLAN, and next the voice VLAN. Interface F00.20 encapsulation.1Q.20 IP address 192.168.20.1 255.255.255.0. Okay, that's all of the configuration needed on R one. Now let's send some network traffic and check it out in simulation mode. First I'll go on PC one. I'll ping PC two, and let's see if the traffic is tagged. First I'll ping in real time mode. ping 192.168.10.12. Okay, the ping works. Now I'll switch to simulation mode and try again. ping 192.168.10.12. So let's check out the frame here and click on outbound PDU details. Is the traffic tagged? No, it isn't. There is no 802.1Q tag in the frame. Okay, I'll switch back to real time mode. Just to make sure my configurations are correct, I'll ping R one two. ping 192.168.10.1. Okay, no problem. Now it's time to check out the phones. I'll call phone two from phone one. So what's phone two's phone number? I'll go to phone two and click on the GUI tab. The phone number is displayed here. 2010. How did it get the number? It was assigned by R one. So switch one told the phones what V land they are in, and then R one told them what phone numbers to use, their IP addresses, etc. So now I'll go to phone one. First I'll go back to simulation mode and I'll call phone two. 2010 and then click on the phone to pick it up. Notice that an SCCP, skinny client control protocol message is sent. SCCP is not something you need to know for the CCNA by the way. If we check out the message in the IP header, you can see the IP address that was assigned to phone one as the source IP. Below it, you can see dot one Q header. So that means this frame is tagged with a V land. It's using dot one Q. In outbound PDU details, you can see it here. Tpid8100, which means dot one Q. And in TCI, tag control information, you can see the V land ID. Hexadecimal0014 is equivalent to decimal 20. So this frame is tagged in V land 20. That's because we configured switch port voice V land 20 on switch one's interfaces. Okay, in this lab, we configured voice V lands and observed that traffic sent from the PCs is not tagged with a V land ID, but traffic sent from the phones is tagged with a V land ID. Note that this applies not only to traffic sent from the PCs or from the phones, but also to traffic sent to the PCs or to the phones by switch one. Switch one will not tag traffic sent to the PCs, but will tag traffic sent to the phones. That's all for this lab. Now let's take a look at a bonus lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim practice lab. Now this lab isn't about voice V land specifically. I selected a different V land lab. It's called V land leaking. This is an important topic. Okay, so we will review.1Q fundamentals and native V land operation. Okay, so there are two switches and I assume we will configure a trunk between these two switches and assign these PCs to different V lands. Now because we're observing V land leaking, we're probably going to configure different native V lands on these switches. So the F04 native V land here will be different than the native V land on the F01 native V land on switch02 and we'll observe the effects of that. So there is a single task, but there are 22 steps. So let's see if we can go through all of them in this lab. So first configure the appropriate IP addresses on PC1 and PC2. So let's do that. PC1. Note that this command, IP config slash IP, is specifically for NetSim. This isn't a command you can use on a real regular PC. And that O.O.1. Slash24. Okay, and I will just check IP config. Yep, looks good. Okay, and then PC2. IP config slash IP 10.O.O.2 slash 24. Okay, on PC1, ping PC2, the ping should be successful. Okay, PC1, ping PC2. Let's see. Okay, and indeed it does work. Next, on switch1, determine the VLAN assignments for the ports connected to PC1 and PC2. Okay, I'll open up switch1, show VLAN brief. Okay, they're in the default V lands. Or the default VLAN of VLAN1. Oh, it's these two interfaces. Fast Ethernet 02 and 03 are both in the default VLAN VLAN1. Okay, assign the ports connecting to PC1 and PC2 as access ports in VLAN10. Okay, so conf.t interface range, f02 to 3, switchboard mode access, switchboard access, VLAN 10. Okay, and let's check. Do show VLAN brief. Perfect. VLAN 10, fast Ethernet 02 and 3. A loud time for network convergence. On PC1, ping PC2, the ping should be successful. So this network convergence is referring to spanning tree because we just created a new VLAN. Spending tree has to converge in that VLAN. But I think enough time is passed, so let's try that ping. Okay, not yet. And there we go. Okay, so next, assign the port connected to PC2 to VLAN20. Okay, so we're going to change the VLAN, not to 10, but to 20. Fast Ethernet 03, that's the one connected to PC2, switchboard access VLAN20. Okay, allow time for network convergence. Again, that spanning tree. And then we'll try to ping PC2 again from PC1. Does the ping succeed or fail? Okay, while we're waiting, what do you think will happen? Will it succeed or will it fail? PC1 is in VLAN10. PC2 is in VLAN20. They're in the same subnet. So normally they should be able to ping each other without having to use any routing. But now they're in different VLANs. So let's see what happens. From PC1, I'll ping PC2. And let me just check that the interface is up. Do show spanning tree. Okay, in VLAN10, forwarding VLAN20, forwarding. Okay. So the interfaces are in a forwarding state, but the ping's timed out. The ping's don't work anymore. Okay, then we'll configure PC3 with the appropriate IP address. And do basically the same thing. Okay. So PC3 is connected to switch2. Okay, and here's its IP address, same subnet as the others. So IP config slash IP 10.0.0.3 slash 24. Okay, and then we will assign it to VLAN10 as an access port. This time on switch2. Okay, show VLAN Brief. Currently, fast-eatnet 02 is in the default VLAN of 1. So let's change that to 10. Switch port, access VLAN10. And I'll confirm. Okay, looks good. Fast-eatnet 02 is now in VLAN10. Okay, what step were we on? Okay, here. Allow time for network convergence. Again, spanning tree. On PC1, ping PC3. The ping should be successful. So let's check spanning tree here. Do show spanning tree. And in VLAN10. Okay, it's currently in the learning state. Let's check once more. Do show spanning tree. VLAN10. Okay, it's forwarding. Fast-eatnet 02 designated forwarding. So PC1 should be able to ping PC3. They're in the same subnet and VLAN. Okay, and the ping works. Looks good. Then step 16. On switch1, display the port and module interface trunk configuration. Okay, I think that just means show interfaces trunk. What is the default trunk behavior for the switch model used in this lab? Okay, I think it's talking about DTP. So show interfaces, first interfaces trunk. Yes, so the mode is desirable for fast-eatnet 02, which is, yes, the one connected to switch2. So it is in mode desirable. Using .1q and the status is trunking. Currently all VLANs are allowed, but the only ones active are 110 and 20, because we haven't created the other VLANs. Okay, what is the default trunking behavior that is desirable here? A loud time for network convergence. Okay, we are already allowed enough time. We saw that switch2's interface was up. It was forwarding. And let's try to ping from PC2 to PC3. So once again, PC2 is in the same subnet as PC1 and PC3, but it's in a different VLAN. So let's see how this goes. Okay, looks like it is not working. Again, that's because of the different VLAN. So switch1 forwards it to switch2, tagged in VLAN 20, switch2 receives it, and wants to forward it to the destination PC3, but it's in a different VLAN. So it doesn't forward it, it drops the packet. It drops the frame. Okay, next step 19 can figure the native VLAN on fast-eatnet 04 to be VLAN 20, and set it manually to a trunk. Okay, that's on switch1. So interface fast-eatnet 04, switchport mode trunk, switchport trunk native VLAN 20. Okay, and then on switch2 interface fast-eatnet 01, switchport mode trunk, switchport trunk native VLAN 10, 10. Okay, and let's check. Do show interfaces trunk. The native VLAN here is 10, switch1, do show interfaces trunk native VLAN is 20. So there's a mismatch. It also tells us to use this command show interfaces switchport. So I'll check fast-eatnet 04, switchport. Oh, I forgot the do. Okay, it's a manual trunk native VLAN is 20. I notice that CDP is discovering that there is a mismatch here, 20 and 10. And here's switch2. Again, CDP is telling us the same thing. It discovered a native VLAN mismatch. Interfaces fast-eatnet 0, 1, switchport. Okay, it is a trunk and the native VLAN is 10. Okay, now we'll try again to ping from PC2 to PC3. So they are in different VLANs so the ping should not work, but now we have a native VLAN mismatch. So switch1 has a native VLAN of 20 here on the fast-eatnet 04 interface. So PC2 in VLAN 20 sends a frame, not tagged, but it's an access port. So switch1 knows this is VLAN 20. And then it sends it to switch2. However, the native VLAN is VLAN 20, so it doesn't tag the frame. Switch2 receives this untagged frame and switch2's native VLAN is 10. So it assumes this frame the source is in VLAN 10. So it does forward the frame to PC3. So even though they are in different VLANs, PC2 is in VLAN 20, PC3 is in VLAN 10. The ping should work this time. Let's try. Okay, and it does work. So that is an effect of having mismatched native VLANs. PCs or devices which are in different VLANs will be able to ping each other or can be able to ping each other in some cases. So normally devices in different VLANs can't directly ping each other, as we demonstrated before, PC2 couldn't ping PC3, but now they can. So normally devices in different VLANs will also be in different subnets. So in that case, for example, PC2 would to ping PC3, first send the packet or the frame to router1, which would route it to the new subnet, the new VLAN, and then send it to PC3 like that. Okay, so hopefully that was clear. If not, you can go back and review my VLAN videos or do a Google search for this VLAN leaking. It's a good thing to know. You might be asking some questions about that on the CCNIT exam. So once again, if you're not confident about VLAN leaking, try a Google search. There will be tons of great resources. Okay, so that was today's look at Boson NetSim for CCNA. As you can see here, there are tons of awesome labs here for the CCNA. So if you're looking for a great labing resource, I highly recommend it. If you want to get Boson NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Sam, Anton, Tebogo, Samil, Anand, Pavel, Abraham, Sergei, Unjoku, Victor, Roger, Raj, Kenneth, Shamis, Brandon, Aaron, Marcel, Kony, Donald, Seymode, Gustavo, Benjamin, Justin, Prakash, Naseer, Erleson, Marco, Daming, Ed, John, FunnyDart, Velvajaykum, Mark, Yusif, Boson Software, Devon, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, April 17th, 2021. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Basic attention token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.