VIDEO 102: Free CCNA | DHCP Snooping | Day 50 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMom_e545H4
CCNA Domain: 4-IP_Services
Duration: 15m 41s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also, please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. If you want more labs like this, I highly recommend Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. NetSim is a network simulator like packet tracer, but it's far more powerful and contains over 100 detailed guided labs covering the CCNA exam topics. If you want to get NetSim, follow the link in the description. In this video, we'll configure DHCP snooping on Switch1 and Switch2. This is the same topology as in the lecture video, so you should be able to do this lab on your own. Let's get right into it by configuring R1 as a DHCP server for this local network. Enable, Conf-T, let's exclude 192.168.1.1 to 192.168.1.9 from the pool. Remember, this part of the configuration is done outside of the DHCP pool. IP DHCP, Excluded Address, 192.168.1.1, 192.168.1.9. Okay, now I'll configure the pool. IP DHCP Pool, Pool1. I'll configure the 192.168.1.0 slash 24 subnet. Network 192.168.1.0, 255.255.255.0, and then configure R1 as the default gateway. Default Router 192.168.1.1. Okay, that's all the configuration needed on R1. Next, let's configure DHCP snooping on Switch 1 and Switch 2. I'll go on Switch 1 first. Enable, Conf-T, First Enable DHCP snooping globally. IP DHCP snooping. But that isn't enough to actually enable DHCP snooping. We need to tell Switch 1 which VLANs to enable it for. Only VLAN 1 is being used in this network. So, IP DHCP snooping VLAN 1. Okay, now VLAN 1 is active. However, all interfaces are untrusted, so DHCP won't be able to operate properly. Let's configure G02 connected to R1 as a trusted port. Interface G02, IP DHCP snooping trust. Exit. Okay, that's all for Switch 1 for now. There's one command I left out, but we'll come back to it later. Now I'll do the exact same configurations on Switch 2. Enable, Conf-T, IP DHCP snooping. IP DHCP snooping VLAN 1. G01 is the uplink leading toward R1, so interface G01, IP DHCP snooping trust. Okay, now let's try to get an IP address on PC1. To do that, I'll use the command IPconfig slash renew. But it's going to fail. Why is that? The correct interfaces are configured as trusted, and PC1 isn't doing MAC address spoofing or anything like that. Well, let's check by switching to simulation mode. And then do IPconfig slash renew again. The DHCP message goes to Switch 2 and then Switch 1. And then it stops there. Why? Let's check this message here, as it was received by Switch 1. Down at the bottom of the inbound PDU details, you can see the DHCP agent information option. That's the problem. Switch 2 added this option to PC1's message. Switch 1 received it on an untrusted port, so it discarded it. Let's go back to real time mode now and fix that. On Switch 1 first, I'll configure no IP DHCP snooping information option. By the way, you can see the syslog messages here for when Switch 1 dropped the message. Notice it says option 82 value on untrusted port, so that's why it was dropped. And then I'll configure the same on Switch 2 also. No IP DHCP snooping information option. I've explained why we need to use this command in the lecture video, so I won't go over it again. Just remember that it's necessary if the Switch isn't acting as a DHCP relay agent. Okay, let's try that again on PC1. IPconfig slash renew. Okay, this time it works, and PC1 was able to get an IP address. So, in this lab we configure DHCP snooping. It's fairly simple to configure. The only thing that can be tricky is remembering to disable option 82. As you can see, it can cause problems if you don't. Okay, that's all for this lab. Now let's take a look at a lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim practice lab, enhancing Switch Security 1. Now interestingly, Boson NetSim for CCNA doesn't actually have a DHCP snooping lab. So that's why I selected this one. And we'll configure some basic Switch Security stuff. This is the lab topology, but we're focusing mainly on Switch 1, so this section of the network here. These are the commands you need to know, IP address information, and there are three lab tasks. Now I have pre-configured task 1, so I've finished it. Basically just configuring host names and IP addresses. So that part is done. So let's go on to task 2, enhance security on Switch 1. So step 1 tells us to configure a username and password, as well as enable password, enable secret, VTYline password, and console port password. Oh, this is router 4. Switch 1. It's a conf T. So first the username. Username Boson password of Cisco, and then enable password Cisco. It tells us to configure both the enable password and the enable secret. So enable secret Cisco. Now if you configure the enable secret, the enable password isn't actually used. So it's not really necessary, but tells us to configure both. Line VTY0 to 15 password Cisco, and also log in. If you just configure the password, this actually won't be used, so we have to tell it to log in. Although we did just configure a username and password combination. So actually instead of log in, let's do log in local to use that username and password combination in the local database. Okay, and then I'll do the same on the console line. Line Cone 0 tells us to configure password. So I will do log in password Cisco log in. But then I'll just configure log in local. So this password Cisco actually won't be used. If we want to log in to the device via either the VTY lines or the console line, we will have to use this username and password combination. Not the password we actually configured directly on the lines. Okay, step two is to encrypt all of those passwords. So that is with the command we covered very early on in the course. Service password encryption. There we go. If I check the running config, you can see the passwords have been encrypted. Yeah, there we go. Okay, step three is to configure a log in banner. Okay, so this will be displayed to the user when they log into the device. So you want to say unauthorized access to this device is prohibited when a user tries to log in. So a banner and there are a few kinds of banners and we're configuring a log in banner there. Banner log in. You have to use a character to indicate the start and end of the message. So it tells us to use the dollar sign. Unauthorized access to this device is prohibited. And then the dollar sign to finish it. Okay. Actually, let's test that. So I'll do end right to save the config and exit out. And now when we try to log in to the console port, it should display that message we just configured. And indeed it does. There we go. Unauthorized access to this device is prohibited. So I will log in and continue to step four, which tells us to configure unused ports as access ports and disable them. Okay, so let's do that. So currently switch one is using ports, fast, e-thnet, zero, one and two. What others does it have? Show interfaces status. Okay, so we should configure fast e-thnet, zero, three to twelve. Okay, and switch port mode access. Configuring them as access ports helps to protect against VLAN hopping attacks, which is something that I haven't actually covered yet in the course. I will make a video about them later. Okay, so we made them access ports, but to make it doubly secure, shut them down. There we go. So just in case someone gets physical access to the switch and can connect their device to it, they won't actually be able to connect to the network because the interfaces are shut down. Okay, so that is task two. Task three is to configure port security. Okay, so a bit of review from the day 49 video. To which interface on switch one is PC one connected. We just saw that above that is fast e-thnet, zero, two, right? Yes, it is. Fast e-thnet, zero, two. Display the Mac address table. What is PC one's Mac address? Okay, show Mac address table. It is this one here, and then two, two, five, one. Okay, before configuring port security, disable the interface. All right. This lets you make sure you complete the port security configuration before it starts learning Mac addresses and such. So it's a good idea to do that. Shut it down before configuring. Okay, verify that the Mac address table entry has been removed. Okay, do show Mac address table. Yes, it has been removed. Set it to access mode. Okay, now we configure port security. So first I'll enable port security itself, switch part port security. And it says to use the maximum number of devices or set it to one, which is actually the default as this note down here says by default one is allowed. So you don't actually have to configure it, but just to make sure it's applied, we will use the command maximum one. Okay, and then configure PC1's Mac address as the secure Mac address. So I will copy this here. In a terminal, when you highlight something, it should copy it by default. So let's see if I can right click to paste, and there we go. It works. Once again, if you want to copy and paste something in a terminal to copy, simply just highlight it. You don't have to do control, see or anything. So it's already copied and then to paste it just, sorry, just right click. And there we go, but I already pasted it. So there it is. PC1's Mac address as the secure Mac address. Okay, set the shutdown mode, the such shutdown violation mode. And this is also the default. So we don't have to do it, but let's configure it anyway. All right, and let's enable it with shutdown. And I will try a ping to a router one. Okay, the ping works. So let's check the outputs here on switch one. Show port security. Okay, maximum is one. Currently there's one address. Security action is shutdown. Let's check the interface. FastEatNZ0.02. Port security enabled, secure up. Violation mode shutdown. Okay, here's PC1's Mac address. Let's check the Mac address table. Okay, there's PC1's Mac address. It's displaying as dynamic, which is odd. We configured it as a static secure Mac address. But the configuration looks good, so I'll assume that this is fine. Okay, so let's use the grade lab function and see if I did everything correctly. Click here. And yes, looks good. I completed the lab successfully. If there are any mistakes, they would be highlighted in red, if it's a missing command, or highlighted in blue, if it's a unnecessary extra command. Okay, so that was a quick look at Boson software's NetSim for CCNA. I think this is a great study tool for the CCNA. It's both a powerful network simulator, and it's got over 100 detailed guided practice labs, like this one. So if you want to get Boson NetSim for CCNA, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCNP level channel members. To join, please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Tom, Samiel, Seymode, Scott, Martin, Qua, Christopher, Tebogo, Anand, Pavel, Abraham, Sergei, and Joku, Victor, Roger, Suki, Kenneth, Shemus, Brandon, Marcel, Coney, Donald, Gustavo, Prakash, Nasir, Erlison, Marco, Daeming, Ed, John, FunnyDart, Velva, Jacob, Yusif, Boson Software, Devin, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCNP level members at the time of recording, by the way, June 7th, 2021. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry, you'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or basic attention token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.