VIDEO 106: Free CCNA | STP & FHRP Synchronization | Day 52 Lab | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BgIEhyoETgU
CCNA Domain: 2-Network_Access
Duration: 19m 11s
Transcript method: Whisper
======================================================================

 Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe to follow along with the series. Also please like and leave a comment and share the video to help spread this free series of videos. Thanks for your help. If you want more labs like this, I highly recommend Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. NetSim is a network simulator like packet tracer, but it's far more powerful and contains over 100 detailed guided labs covering the CCNA exam topics. If you want to get NetSim, follow the link in the description. In this lab, we'll look at the topic of HSRP and STP synchronization. This applies regardless of what first-hop redundancy protocol you're using, but for this lab we'll use HSRP. Basically, HSRP and STP synchronization means that the HSRP active should be the STP root bridge and the HSRP standby should be the STP secondary root bridge. Why should the HSRP active and the STP root be synchronized or aligned? It's to ensure that traffic from the end hosts follows the most direct path to the default gateway. If the HSRP active router isn't the STP root, then the traffic from PC1 to D-switch1 might not take the direct path to D-switch1. It might take a longer path. This isn't a disaster, but it's obviously not ideal. Because STP works by finding the shortest path to the root, ensuring that the HSRP active router is synchronized with the STP root means that traffic will follow the most efficient path. This lab will make D-switch1 the HSRP active and STP root for VLAN10 and make D-switch2 the HSRP active and STP root for VLAN20. Before configuring HSRP and STP, let's check the current state on D-switch1. Enable. Show Standby Brief. Nothing. So, HSRP hasn't been configured yet. Let's check Spanningtree. Show Spanningtree VLAN10. D-switch1 has a root port, G103, which is connected to D-switch2. So it looks like D-switch2 is the root bridge, not D-switch1. How about VLAN20? Show Spanningtree VLAN20. Same thing here. Now I'll get right into configuring D-switch1. Conf T. Let's configure STP first. Spanningtree VLAN10 root primary. That should make D-switch1 the root for VLAN10. Now let's ensure it's the secondary root for VLAN20. Spanningtree VLAN20 root secondary. Okay, let's check the status now. VLAN10 first, where D-switch1 should be the root. Do show Spanningtree VLAN10. Great. One is the root now, as it says up here, and all ports are designated. And VLAN20 next. Do show Spanningtree VLAN20. Now because we haven't configured D-switch2 yet, the root secondary command here actually made D-switch1's priority lower than D-switch2's, so D-switch1 became the root for VLAN20 also. That's fine. After we configure D-switch2, it will become the root for VLAN20 again. Now let's configure HSRP here on D-switch1 for the VLAN10 SVI first. Interface VLAN10. I didn't give any specifics in the description about the HSRP configurations, but I'll make it version 2, stand by version 2. I'll make a group 10 for VLAN10, stand by 10, IP, and let's make the default gateway .254, 10.0.10.254. I'll make D-switch1's priority higher than the default 100 next, stand by 10, priority 105, and enable preemption 2. It's good to have, stand by 10 preempt. Okay, VLAN20 next. Interface VLAN20, let's enable version 2 here too, stand by version 2. And then the virtual IP.254 again, stand by 20, IP 10.0.20.254. Note that these HSRP group numbers don't actually have to match the VLAN number. Okay, next I'll make it's priority lower than the default of 100, stand by 20, priority 95, and enable preempt, stand by 20, preempt. Okay, that's all here on D-switch1. Now I'll do similar configurations on D-switch2. Conf T. First, make it the secondary route of VLAN10, spanning tree VLAN10, root secondary, and the primary route for VLAN20, spanning tree VLAN20, root primary. Let's check the STP status now. Is it the root for VLAN20? Do show spanning tree VLAN20? Yes it is, perfect. And D-switch1 should remain the root for VLAN10. Do show spanning tree VLAN10. Perfect, D-switch2's root port is G103, which is connected to D-switch1. Next up, HSRP on D-switch2. Interface VLAN10. First, let's make the version match, stand by version 2, and then configure the same virtual IP, the .254 of the subnet, stand by 10, IP 10.0.10.254, and let's lower the priority here, even though D-switch1's is already higher, stand by 10, priority 95, and I'll enable preemption 2, stand by 10, preempt. Okay, that's all for VLAN10, now VLAN20. Interface VLAN20, stand by version 2, stand by 20, IP 10.0.20.254, stand by 20, priority 105, stand by 20, preempt, and all of the configurations should be good now. Again, D-switch1 should be active in VLAN10, and stand by in VLAN20, and D-switch2 should be the opposite, active in VLAN20, and stand by in VLAN10. Let's check first here on D-switch2, if it's the HSRP active in VLAN20, and stand by in VLAN10. Show stand by brief. Okay, VLAN10 looks perfect. The active is 10.0.10.1, which is D-switch1, and the stand by is local, meaning D-switch2. VLAN20 looks good too. The active is local, and stand by is 10.0.20.1, D-switch1. So it all looks good here on D-switch2, but let's check on D-switch1 also, just to be sure. Show stand by brief. Okay, in VLAN10, the active is local, and D-switch2 is stand by, and the opposite for VLAN20. So we have configured both STP and HSRP as in the instructions. This ensures that hosts in VLAN10 have a direct path to their default gateway, D-switch1, and hosts in VLAN20 have a direct path to their default gateway, D-switch2. Synchronizing the STP and HSRP configurations like this is a good LAN design principle. Although to be honest, I doubt you'll be asked about it on the CCNA exam, in this course, I always try to give you more information than you need, as long as it's valuable. Okay, that's all for this lab. Now let's take a look at a lab in Boson Software's NetSim for CCNA. Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview. Once we just covered or reviewed some HSRP configurations in the video, I decided to choose a VRRP lab for this Boson NetSim lab preview. Now neither is actually on the CCNA exam topics, HSRP configuration or VRRP configuration. But since these Boson NetSim videos are a bit of an extra thing, I thought it would be nice to show you how to configure VRRP. It's very similar to HSRP. Okay, so this is the topology. You should recognize this now. We have an access layer, a distribution layer, and then there are routers. So this is a collapsed core, two-tier architecture. There are no core switches. So there are access, distribution, and then these routers will either connect to the Internet or to the WAN or whatever. Okay, these are the commands we need to know. This is how you configure VRRP. For HSRP, it was standby, group number, IP like that. For VRRP, you basically just replace standby with VRRP. Very simple. Okay, these are the IP addresses and the lab tasks. Now for the sake of time, I'm going to skip task one, verify basic connectivity. We don't need to do all of these things in such. Okay, task two, verify, not verify. Configure VRRP. Three is verify. Okay, so we will configure VRRP on the distribution layer switches on their VLAN1 interfaces it looks like. Okay, so let's open up the CLIs of D-Switch1 and D-Switch2. Okay, here on D-Switch1, I'll go to the VLAN1 interface and create a VRRP group with a group number of three and IP address of 1-122.16.3.1. Okay, VRRP and then the group number, three and then IP and the IP address. There we go. Okay, you can see it is the master. So in HSRP, we have active and standby, VRRP, master and backup. All right, let's do the same on D-Switch2. Stand by three, sorry, not standby, I'm still in a HSRP mode. VRRP3, IP1-122.16.30. Sorry, dot three dot one. There we go. Okay, so it initially became the master for a second, but then it decided to become the backup. I guess it finished the negotiations with D-Switch1. Okay, now we have to configure it as the default gateway on client one and client two, these two PCs. All right, I'll open up their CLIs. So the command to do that in NetSim is IP-config slash IP, now slash DG, one, seven, two dot, 16 dot, three dot one and on client two also. Okay, on a switch one and a switch to we should also configure their default gateways. All right, so these are layer two switches, I assume. So we will use the default gateway command, not an IP route command, IP default gateway, one, seven, two, 16, three, one and on a switch to. Okay, let's verify it. So on D-Switch1 and D-Switch2 display the VRP configuration. Okay, this is not the configuration, I guess it is, it's a summary. Okay, so that's the virtual IP. We have the virtual MAC address, notice the group number of three. These are the default advertisement intervals and everything. Which device is the master for VLAN1 that is D-Switch1? It says it right here, state is master. Which device has the higher priority for VLAN1? Okay, they should have the same priority default, 100 for D-Switch1 and D-Switch2, 100 also. Why are both VRP groups on separate devices assigned the same IP address? That's because they share the virtual IP. So if one of them fails, then the other simply automatically takes over without these devices having to change their default gateway IP address. That's the purpose of these FHRPs. Is a group number required in order for VRP to be configured? Yes, it is. It absolutely is. And they have to match for these two to properly become a group. The group number has to match. What is the number range that can be used when a VRP group number is assigned? I saw that up here on D-Switch1 when I configured it. It was 1 to 255. Sorry, yeah, here it is, right? VRP, I did the question mark. And the range is 1 to 255. Okay, is VRP an industry standard or proprietary to Cisco? It is a standard. HSRP is proprietary to Cisco. VRP is a standard. Okay, and verify that client 1 can still ping Router 1's fast ethernet 0-0 interface. Okay. So even though Router 1 has or is using the virtual IP, it still has that physical IP. So this should work. Yes, it does. All right. Now we will assign VRP priorities and configure preempt. Now it looks like preempt is enabled by default. I'm not sure if that's correct, but that's what the output of this command says. Okay, so let's do those configurations. How can you guarantee that a specific switch becomes the master? Well, increase the priority and configure preempt. What is the default priority? It is 100. Okay, D switch 1 will give a priority of 90. Okay, so we're going to make D switch to the master. It seems the RRP group 3 priority 90. What should you do to guarantee that D switch 2 remains the master? In case an additional switch joins the VRP group. Okay, so we should increase D switch 2's priority. So now D switch 2 has a higher priority than D switch 1. So it becomes the master, as you can see here, D switch 1 changed from master to backup. But if another router joins or sorry, another switch joins that group, even if it has the same priority as D switch 2, maybe the IP address is higher. So it becomes the new master. Okay, so let's do that. Configure that priority here on D switch 2. The RRP 3 priority 120. Verify that the priorities are configured correctly. Do show VRP. Yep, 120 on D switch 2. And 90 on D switch 1. Has D switch 2 become the master? Yes, it has. Do you need to enable preempt? No, I don't. It seems it is enabled by default. I don't remember if that was the correct default setting, but it seems it is. So that is enabled by default in VRRP. Okay, verify that connectivity still exists on client 1 and client 2. Okay, so we're once again going to ping router 1. Just to see that even though it isn't the master. It's not in control of that virtual IP, you can still ping its actual IP address on its interface. So let's do that. Okay, we can ping from client 1. And we can ping from client 2. Okay, so that's the lab. Let's check if I did it correctly. I'll click on the grade lab icon. And I did. You completed the lab successfully. Okay, so these are the configurations of each device. We didn't actually configure these routers. A switch 1, 2, D switch 1 and 2. Okay, so that was a quick look at Boson software's NetSim. Now, as I said, VRRP configuration isn't a CCNA exam topic. So this lab is actually from NetSim for CCNP encore. But I thought it would just be interesting to show you how to configure it because it is so simple and so similar to HSRP. Okay, thanks for watching. If you want to get Boson NetSim, please follow the link in the video description. Before finishing today's video, I want to thank my JCMP level channel members to join. Please click the join button under the video. Thank you to Kwa, Drago's Tanvir, Chalzetta, Gerard, Tom, Samil, Scott, Martin, Tebogo, Anand, Pavel, Abraham, Sergei, Angelku, Victor, Suki, Kenneth, Shemus, Brandon, Marcel, Kony, Donald, Gustavo, Prakash, Nasir, Erlison, Marco, Ed, John, Fannydart, Velva, Jacob, Boson, Software, Devon, Yonatan and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for your support. This is the list of JCMP level members at the time of recording, by the way. July 3, 2021. If you signed up recently and your name isn't on here, don't worry. You'll be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the video, leave a comment, and share the video with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the description. I'm also a Brave Verified publisher, and accept BAT or basic attention token tips via the Brave browser. That's all for now.