VIDEO 122: REST API Authentication | CCNA 200-301 Day 61 (part 2)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bmqr_xpt6sc
CCNA Domain: 6-Automation
Duration: 29m 15s
Transcript method: API
======================================================================

Hi from Tokyo Japan, and welcome to Jeremy’s 
IT Lab. In this video we’re going to cover REST  
API authentication. We’ve already covered the 
basics of REST APIs, but Cisco recently added  
authentication to the list of things you need 
to know about REST for the CCNA exam. APIs give  
access to an application and its data, so security 
should always be a major concern when designing  
and using APIs. In this video, we’ll examine 
some common methods of REST API authentication.
But before we get started, let me take a minute 
to shill my books, Acing the CCNA Exam volumes  
1 and 2. These books are up to date, covering 
everything you need for the latest version of  
the exam. REST API authentication, for example, 
is covered in chapter 23 of volume 2. I highly  
recommend using books in combination with 
a video course, and if you want my books,  
you can get them at the links on the screen 
now, or on Amazon. Now let’s get started.
So, what are we going to cover in this 
video? First, I’ll introduce the concept  
of REST API authentication in general, 
including why it’s so important. Then,  
for the rest of the video, we’ll cover 
four common types of REST authentication:  
basic authentication, bearer authentication, 
API key authentication, and finally OAuth2.0.  
We’ll outline how each of these methods works, 
and their advantages and disadvantages. So,  
that’s the plan for today. Now let’s 
learn about REST API authentication.
Hopefully you already know this definition 
from the security section of the course, but  
authentication is the process of validating the 
identity of a user or system to ensure legitimate  
access to resources. In the case of an API, the 
resource is the application and its data. In many  
cases, these resources should be protected. But 
without authentication, unauthorized users can  
send API requests, potentially accessing sensitive 
data or modifying the application. For example,  
here we have an application and some data. The API 
serves as an interface, allowing other apps to use  
the application or to access its data. Without 
authentication, if a malicious user sends an  
API call, also called an API request, the API will 
accept the request and provide the requested data.  
It’s worth noting that some APIs are intentionally 
open and don’t require authentication. These APIs  
typically provide publicly available data 
that doesn’t require security protection.
But for many APIs, that isn’t the case, 
and security is a major concern. When the  
malicious user makes the API call, the API 
should authenticate the user, asking “who  
are you?”. If the authentication process fails, 
the request is denied and the user doesn’t get  
access to the data. Implementing a reliable 
authentication method like this is essential  
for protecting applications and data that aren’t 
meant to be publicly available. And in addition to  
security concerns, many APIs track usage for 
analytics and billing purposes. For example,  
charging customers according to how much they use 
the API is a common practice. A great example is  
the ChatGPT API. Many AI applications use ChatGPT 
behind the scenes, and OpenAI charges businesses  
based on token usage. Basically, a token 
is a chunk of text, either input or output,  
and this means companies pay more as they send 
larger or more frequent requests to the API.
So, to summarize the previous slide, when working 
with REST APIs, authentication is crucial for  
verifying a client’s identity and securing access 
to resources. REST APIs use various types of  
authentication to achieve this, and we’ll cover 
some key ones in this video. These authentication  
types are also called authentication methods, 
or authentication schemes; those are the more  
technical terms. In this video, we’re going to 
cover four of them. The first method is basic  
authentication. As the name suggests, this is the 
simplest form of REST authentication. It sends a  
username and password in every request, encoded 
in Base64 format. Note that encoding is not the  
same as encryption; I’ll explain that in the next 
slide. Next, we have bearer authentication. This  
method uses a token, called a bearer token, 
included as an HTTP header in the request,  
to verify the client’s identity. This method 
is quite common in modern APIs; the client  
first obtains a token and then includes it in 
requests after that. Another common method is API  
key authentication. This requires a unique key, 
which is typically included as an HTTP header,  
like the bearer token. The API key acts as a 
unique identifier for the client, and is useful  
for tracking usage. Finally, we have OAuth 2.0. 
This is a more advanced and secure authentication  
framework that grants access using access tokens. 
OAuth 2.0 is widely used for delegated access  
and third-party authentication. I’ll break down 
what those terms mean when we cover OAuth 2.0 in  
detail. But if you’ve ever seen the “log in with 
google” option on a website, that’s OAuth2.0. Each  
of these methods has its own advantages and 
use cases. Now let’s look at them one by one.
We’ll start with basic authentication, which 
authenticates using a username and password in  
the HTTP headers of each API request. Before 
we dive deeper into basic authentication,  
let's first break down the structure of an HTTP 
message so you can see where authentication fits  
in. It begins with what’s called the start line, 
which includes three pieces of information: The  
HTTP method, which is POST in this case; the URL, 
which is api/v1/acl/rules; and the HTTP version,  
which is 2 in this case. The POST method 
is typically used for a create operation;  
think back to the CRUD operations (create, read, 
update, delete) we covered in the previous video  
on REST. So, this HTTP message is probably a 
request to create something on the server. Next,  
we have the headers. These provide metadata about 
the request, such as authentication details,  
content type, and information about the 
client making the request. Often there  
are several headers; there are four in this 
case. The headers are followed by a blank line,  
and then there is the message body, the actual 
contents of the message. This is the HTTP message,  
which would then be encapsulated in a TCP 
segment to be sent over the network. This  
message is using basic authentication; 
can you find it? It’s this line right  
here. It uses the “Authorization” header, 
but the real purpose is to authenticate the  
request. And then that authentication can 
be used to provide proper authorization.
Now that we’ve identified where the basic 
authentication occurs in the HTTP headers of  
the API request, let’s look a bit deeper at basic 
authentication. As I said, basic authentication  
includes a username and password in the HTTP 
headers. These credentials are encoded in Base64  
format, but not encrypted. That’s an important 
distinction. Base64 is an encoding scheme,  
which is simply a way of representing data. 
And unlike encryption, it is not secure and  
can be easily decoded. So, although I’ve been 
referring to HTTP, you really should be using  
HTTPS with your REST APIs for security. HTTPS 
is HTTP plus TLS, Transport Layer Security,  
which provides robust encryption and security. 
The username and password used for basic  
authentication are sent in the format username 
colon password, encoded in Base64. For example,  
username jeremy and password ccna would be sent 
as this string of characters. If you’re curious,  
you can visit this URL, base64decode.org, 
to encode and decode base64. So, let’s see  
how basic authentication works in action. 
On the right here we have the REST server,  
with an API allowing access to its data. And 
on the left we have a client app that wants  
to access the data. It sends an API call, 
including the “Authorization” header for  
authentication. Notice the password is encoded 
in Base64; that’s username jeremy and password  
ccna. The authentication succeeds, so the server 
grants the request and responds with the data. So,  
it’s that simple: a username and password are 
included with each request, and if they’re  
correct, authentication succeeds. Now that 
we’ve seen how basic authentication works,  
let’s consider the advantages and disadvantages. 
Honestly, the main advantage is that it’s simple  
and easy to implement, just a username and 
password. But since those credentials are sent  
in every request, attackers could steal them if 
the connection isn’t properly secured. But really,  
that applies for any authentication method: 
HTTPS is essential when communicating over  
the modern Internet; you shouldn’t use regular 
HTTP. But even if using HTTPS for encryption,  
relying solely on a username and password 
combination isn’t particularly secure. If an  
attacker gets access to the credentials, whether 
through social engineering or another attack,  
they get access to the API. So that’s basic 
authentication. Let’s move on to the next method.
Next, we’ll look at bearer authentication, 
which is a form of token-based authentication,  
and uses a token instead of a username 
and password. In bearer authentication,  
the client first obtains a token by authenticating 
with an authorization server, often just called an  
“auth server”. This is typically different from 
the server actually hosting the resource the  
client wants to access. Note that authenticating 
with the auth server can be done using basic  
authentication or another authentication method. 
This step is separate from the actual API request  
to the resource server. Then, after the client 
gets the token, for each API request, the client  
includes the token in the HTTP authorization 
header like we saw before. For example,  
it will look something like this: Authorization: 
Bearer, and then the token. Let’s see how it  
works. Notice I’m showing two servers now. One 
is the auth server, which generates the token.  
And then the resource server, which hosts whatever 
resource the client wants to access. So, to begin,  
the client requests a token from the auth server, 
and if successful, the server grants the client  
a token. Then, when the client sends an API call 
to the resource server, it includes the token in  
the call. And then the resource server responds, 
either with the requested resource, or a message  
indicating the server did what was requested. So, 
that’s basically how bearer authentication works.  
The term “bearer” means that anyone who possesses 
the token can use it. This means that, if an  
attacker steals the token, they can make requests, 
API calls, as if they were the legitimate user.  
This is clearly a security problem, so to 
mitigate against this, tokens usually expire  
after a set period of time. The expiration time 
depends on the API’s security needs. Some tokens  
expire in 15 minutes to reduce risk, while 
others last weeks or months for convenience,  
especially in low-security environments. Okay, 
let’s summarize by considering some advantages  
and disadvantages of bearer authentication. First 
off, it’s more secure than basic authentication,  
because there’s no need to transmit the same 
username and password for every single API  
call. The tokens that are used instead expire, so 
a stolen token will only be temporarily valid. But  
still, it’s worth mentioning as a disadvantage 
that, if the token is stolen, the attacker can  
still access the API until the token expires. And 
since tokens need to be refreshed periodically,  
it adds some extra complexity when implementing 
bearer authentication, compared to basic  
authentication. That’s not a problem for 
network engineers, but for the programmers  
who build these APIs it’s worth considering. 
And finally, just like basic authentication,  
it should only be used with HTTPS. If the token is 
sent in cleartext, no encryption, it simply isn’t  
secure; you need HTTPS when communicating over the 
modern internet. While bearer tokens are commonly  
used for user authentication in APIs, some APIs 
use a simpler method, which we’ll cover next.
Next up is API key authentication, which uses a 
static key issued by the API provider. The client  
uses this key in each API call for authentication. 
The main difference between a bearer token and a  
key is that, unlike bearer tokens, the API key 
is static. It doesn’t expire automatically,  
so it remains valid until revoked. API keys 
can be sent to the server in a few ways.  
The recommended way is to include the key in the 
HTTP Authorization header, as we saw in basic and  
bearer authentication. But you can also include 
the key in the URL, in the start line of the  
HTTP request, by adding a parameter to the URL. 
But this is not recommended for several reasons,  
one being that since URLs are often logged 
by web servers, proxies, and browsers,  
API keys included in URLs can be exposed in logs, 
making them vulnerable to attackers. And a third  
option is to send the API key as a cookie, which 
is sometimes used for browser-based APIs. But in  
any case, the recommended method is to include 
the key in the authorization header. Let’s  
see what it looks like; it’s quite simple. 
The client sends an API call to the server  
hosting the resource it wants to access. And the 
client includes the API key in the authorization  
header of the HTTP message. Assuming the key was 
valid, the server then sends its response. Okay,  
now that we’ve seen how it works, let’s consider 
a couple of advantages and disadvantages. One  
advantage is that it’s easier to implement than 
Bearer authentication. And API key authentication  
is good for tracking usage. The API provider can 
assign a unique key to each customer, and then  
easily track each customer’s usage by tracking 
the key used in each API call. Because of this,  
API keys are often used in cloud services and 
third-party APIs. If you’re wondering what a  
third-party API is, think of a developer that 
builds a chatbot app that uses ChatGPT. The end  
users are the first party. The developer creating 
the chatbot app is the second party. But instead  
of generating responses itself, the app calls 
OpenAI’s API to get responses from ChatGPT.  
Since OpenAI is external to both the users and 
the app developer, it’s the third party in this  
interaction. Hopefully that makes sense! Now let’s 
look at a couple of disadvantages. One problem is  
that, if stolen, the key grants full access until 
revoked. It doesn’t automatically expire. So,  
API keys must be rotated manually to maintain 
security, whereas the tokens used in bearer  
authentication expire automatically. Okay 
that’s all for API key authentication.
Finally, we move on to OAuth 2.0. It’s a secure 
authentication framework that is widely used in  
modern web applications. Its overall purpose is 
different from the other methods we’ve looked at,  
in that it provides access delegation, 
granting third-party applications limited  
access to resources on behalf of the resource’s 
owner. The main benefit is that there is no need  
to share the resource owner’s credentials with 
the third party. For example, when you use ‘Log  
in with Google’ on a website, the website 
never sees your Google password. Instead,  
Google confirms your identity and grants 
access only to approved information. Let’s  
look at some examples of OAuth2.0. The first is 
what I just mentioned, logging in with google.  
Many websites and apps offer the option to log 
in using your Google account. The third party  
website or app is granted access to some of your 
Google account’s information, without actually  
getting access to your account’s credentials. 
Connecting apps to social media accounts is  
another example. Many apps can be connected to 
Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, etc. OAuth 2.0  
lets these apps access your social media account 
for specific tasks, like posting on your behalf,  
without revealing your login credentials. 
Calendar integration is one more example.  
A third-party tool, like a scheduling app, can 
be given access to your Google calendar to check  
availability and schedule meetings. These are 
all common examples of OAuth2.0. Now let’s  
see how it actually works. There are four main 
parties involved. First is the resource owner,  
the account owner granting access to their data. 
Using the Google calendar integration example,  
this is the owner of the google account. Next 
is the client app, the third-party application  
requesting access to your Google data, like a 
scheduling tool accessing your calendar. Then  
there is the auth server. This server issues 
access tokens, granting limited access to your  
google account, after receiving user approval. 
In this example, this is Google’s OAuth service.  
Finally, there is the resource server, the 
server that hosts the protected resource. In  
this example, it’s the server hosting the Google 
calendar data that the client app wants to access.
Now let’s see OAuth2.0 in action. The overall 
process consists of six main steps. First,  
the client app requests authorization 
from the resource owner. In our example,  
this could be a scheduling app requesting 
access to your Google Calendar. Next,  
the resource owner—which is you, the account 
owner—grants authorization by logging into your  
Google account and giving permission for the 
scheduling app to access your calendar data.  
Once permission is granted, the client app 
exchanges this authorization grant for an  
access token from the auth server—which in this 
case, is Google’s OAuth service. The auth server  
then issues an access token to the client app. 
This token acts as a temporary key that allows  
the app to request resources on your behalf. Now 
that the client app has a token, it includes the  
token in an API request to the resource server, 
which hosts the actual data—in this case,  
your Google Calendar data. Finally, the resource 
server validates the access token and provides the  
requested resource back to the client app. If 
the token is valid and the app has the correct  
permissions, it will receive the data it needs. 
The key part of OAuth 2.0 is the access token  
issued in step 4. It functions like the tokens we 
saw in bearer authentication. It grants access to  
the specified resource within the allowed scope, 
for example read-only access. And just as in  
bearer authentication, access tokens expire after 
a short period, which helps improve security. But  
instead of requiring the user to log in again 
every single time the access token expires,  
OAuth 2.0 uses refresh tokens, granted by the auth 
server, which allow the client app to request a  
new access token without user interaction. This 
way, the app can maintain access over an extended  
period of time without constantly requiring the 
user to log in. So, that’s OAuth 2.0. It allows  
third-party apps to securely access a user’s 
data without exposing their credentials, and  
while allowing users to control what information 
is shared. That’s why OAuth 2.0 is so widely used  
in modern web applications. By the way, OAuth 
2.0 is defined in RFC 6749, which you can access  
from this link here, or just google search for 
RFC 6749. Diving into RFCs isn’t expected for  
the CCNA exam, but if you’re curious to learn 
more about OAuth 2.0, it’s worth checking out.
Alright, let’s wrap things up with a quick summary 
of what we covered in this video before we move on  
to the quiz. REST API authentication ensures that 
only authorized users or systems can access an  
API. Without it, anyone could send API requests, 
potentially exposing or modifying sensitive data.  
We looked at four types of REST API authentication 
methods. Basic Authentication uses a username and  
password encoded in Base64, but it’s not 
encrypted, so it must be used with HTTPS  
for security. Actually, that statement really 
applies to all of these authentication methods:  
in the modern internet, you should always use 
HTTPS, not regular HTTP. Bearer Authentication  
is a step up in security, using a token 
issued by an authorization server instead  
of sending a username and password in every 
request. Tokens expire after a short time,  
which increases security, but they can still 
be stolen if not protected with HTTPS. Next,  
API Key Authentication works similarly but uses a 
static key issued by the API provider. It’s good  
for tracking API usage, so it’s commonly used by 
cloud service providers and third-party APIs. It’s  
easier to implement than bearer authentication, 
but it’s considered less secure because stolen  
keys remain valid until manually revoked. 
They don’t automatically expire. Finally,  
OAuth 2.0 is a framework for access delegation, 
allowing third-party applications limited access  
to a user’s resources without sharing login 
credentials. It relies on access tokens that  
can be refreshed with a refresh token, 
allowing continued access without user  
reauthentication. OAuth 2.0 involves four 
key parties: the resource owner, for example,  
the owner of the Google account. The client 
app, the app that requests access to the  
account’s resources. The authorization server, 
which grants the client app a token to provide  
limited access to the requested resource. And 
finally, the resource server; the server that  
hosts the protected resource: for example, the 
Google account’s information. Okay, that’s what  
we covered in the video. Now let’s move on 
to a quick quiz to test your understanding.
Here’s quiz question 1. Which of the following 
REST authentication methods involve an Auth  
server issuing tokens? Select two. Pause 
the video now to think about your answers.
Okay, the answers are A and B, OAuth 2.0 and 
bearer authentication. Here’s the diagram I  
showed for OAuth 2.0, and here’s the diagram 
for bearer authentication. Basic authentication  
doesn’t involve an auth server; it just uses 
simple username and password authentication. And  
neither does API key authentication, which uses a 
static key. Okay, let’s go to the next question.
Here’s question 2. Which of the 
following best describes how  
OAuth 2.0 improves security? Pause the 
video now to think about your answer.
Okay, the answer is B, it allows third-party 
apps to access resources without exposing  
user credentials. Here’s the diagram once again. 
Instead of using the resource owner’s credentials  
for authentication, the client app receives an 
access token from the auth server in step 4,  
which allows it to authenticate 
with the resource server in step 5,  
and then access the resource. Okay, 
let’s go to the next question.
Here’s question 3. Which of the 
following statements are true?  
Select three. Pause the video 
now to think about your answers.
Okay, the answers are B, C, and E. B is 
correct because bearer authentication  
does require a token; the term “bearer” refers to 
this bearer token. C is correct because OAuth 2.0  
enables access delegation, as we covered in the 
previous quiz question. And E is correct because,  
instead of requiring user reauthentication 
every time the access token expires,  
a refresh token can be used to automatically 
obtain a new access token. A is incorrect  
because API keys do not expire automatically; 
for this reason, they are considered less  
secure than tokens. D is incorrect because basic 
authentication doesn’t use encryption. Instead,  
the username and password are encoded in 
Base64 format, which is easily reversible.  
Finally, F is incorrect because API keys should 
not be included in URLs. Instead, they should be  
included in the HTTP Authorization header, as this 
is more secure. Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
And that’s all for this video on REST API 
authentication. We covered four kinds:  
basic authentication, bearer authentication, 
API key authentication, and OAuth 2.0. There  
are other REST authentication methods out 
there, but these are the four I recommend  
knowing for the CCNA exam. I hope you found 
this video helpful. Thanks for watching.