
######################################################################
# VIDEO 119: AI & Machine Learning | CCNA 200-301 Day 59 (part 2)
# Domain: 4-IP_Services
######################################################################

Hi from Tokyo Japan, and welcome to Jeremy’s IT 
Lab. In this video we’re going to cover a topic  
that’s a recent addition to the CCNA exam: AI and 
machine learning. Ever since ChatGPT was publicly  
released in 2022, AI seems to be on everyone’s 
mind. So, what is AI? What is machine learning?  
And what do they have to do with networking? 
We’ll answer those questions and more in  
this video. But before we get 
started, let me take a minute to shill my books,  
Acing the CCNA Exam volumes 1 and 2. I always 
recommend studying from multiple resources, and  
my books are great in combination with this course 
that you’re watching now. AI and machine learning,  
the topics of this video, are covered in chapter 
22 of volume 2. You can get the books from Amazon,  
or directly from the publisher using the links on 
the screen right now. Use code au35mcd to get 35%  
off either volume, or you can get 50% off if 
you buy both together. Now let’s get started.
So, what are we going to cover in this video? 
First, I’ll define AI and machine learning. What  
are they, how are they related, etc. Then we’ll 
examine some different types of machine learning.  
Supervised learning, unsupervised learning, 
reinforcement learning, and deep learning. We’ll  
cover how each of these learning methods works, as 
well as their advantages and disadvantages. Then  
we’ll move on to predictive and generative AI, as 
well as their current and potential applications  
to networking. Finally, we’ll cover some specific 
AI features of Cisco’s catalyst center. Since the  
CCNA is a Cisco exam, it’s always good to 
be familiar with Cisco’s own solutions. So,  
that’s what’s on the menu for today, now let’s 
move on to define AI and machine learning.
So, what is AI? Artificial intelligence, 
usually called AI, uses computers to simulate  
intelligence, allowing them to exhibit behaviors 
typically associated with humans, such as  
recognizing patterns, learning, making decisions, 
and solving problems. These days, AI models like  
ChatGPT are on everyone’s mind, but the field of 
AI is much wider and older. Let’s look at just a  
few examples of AIs, many of which you’re probably 
familiar with. Virtual assistants like Siri,  
Alexa, and Google Assistant all use AI. They 
help you perform tasks like setting reminders,  
answering questions, or controlling smart home 
devices by processing your voice commands and  
providing relevant responses. Recommendation 
systems, like those on Netflix, YouTube,  
or Amazon, use AI to analyze your preferences 
and suggest content or products tailored to your  
tastes. Just as you might recommend a show, video, 
or product to a friend based on what you know  
about them, these AIs perform a similar role on a 
much larger scale. By learning from your viewing,  
searching, and purchasing habits, they 
continuously refine their recommendations  
to offer suggestions they think you’ll enjoy. 
Self-driving cars and robotics, such as Tesla's  
full self-driving and Waymo, rely on AI to 
process sensor data, make real-time decisions,  
and navigate complex environments. Chatbots, like 
ChatGPT, can generate human-like text for tasks  
ranging from customer support to creative writing. 
That logo on the right is the chatbot that appears  
when you visit cisco.com, for example. That kind 
of chatbot is also known as a virtual concierge.  
AI is also behind advanced game-playing systems 
like Stockfish in Chess and AlphaGo in Go, which  
have long surpassed the abilities of even the best 
human players of these games. And of course there  
are many more examples. The point is that AI is a 
very wide field with countless applications. And  
AI is only growing in importance thanks to an 
increase in computing power, the availability  
of big data, and breakthroughs in AI research, 
such as the AI boom since ChatGPT’s release.
Next, let’s dive deeper to examine machine 
learning. Machine learning, or ML, is a subset of  
artificial intelligence that focuses on enabling 
computers to learn from data and improve their  
performance over time without needing explicit 
programming. Instead of relying on hard-coded  
instructions from a human, machine learning 
algorithms identify patterns in data and use  
those patterns to make predictions or decisions. 
To put it in context, this blue box represents the  
field of AI, and ML is a subset of that field. Not 
all AI uses machine learning, but it’s one of the  
most impactful components of modern AI. So, how 
does machine learning work. Let’s break it down.  
At a very high level, it can be broken down into 
three parts. This represents the system, or model,  
that we want to train with machine learning. The 
learning starts with input data. This could be  
anything from numbers in a spreadsheet to 
images, videos, or text. That data is used  
to train a model, meaning the machine learning 
algorithm processes the data to learn patterns or  
relationships within it. Once trained, the model 
can use what it has learned to make predictions or  
decisions when new data is provided. This cycle, 
learning from data and applying what’s learned,  
is what makes ML so powerful. Machine learning 
powers many AI applications you already use,  
including those listed in the previous slide. 
For example, email spam filtering uses machine  
learning to identify unwanted messages. 
Personalized product recommendations learn  
from your previous behavior help you find items 
you’ll probably want to buy. Fraud detection  
in banking uses previous data to identify 
and prevent suspicious activity. It’s also  
behind advanced techniques in natural language 
processing, which enables computers to process and  
understand human language. And of course, there 
are plenty more examples. Although, as I said,  
not all AI uses machine learning, it is the 
driving force behind many modern AI applications.  
AI as sophisticated as ChatGPT, for example, 
wouldn’t be possible without machine learning.
Now that we know the basics of machine learning, 
let’s look at the four main types. First,  
supervised learning. This is where the model 
is trained on labeled data, meaning the correct  
answers are provided during training. The model 
uses this data to learn and make predictions or  
classifications on new data. Next, unsupervised 
learning. In this type, the model is given  
unlabeled data, and its goal is to find patterns, 
relationships, or groupings within the data.  
It’s a more hands-off approach. Then, we have 
reinforcement learning. Here, the model learns  
by interacting with an environment, receiving 
rewards or penalties based on its actions,  
and continuously improving to maximize its 
performance. For example, this type of learning  
is used to train AI in game-playing systems 
like AlphaGo, or in self-driving cars, where  
the AI learns to navigate by trial and error. 
Finally, there is deep learning. Deep learning  
is a specialized subset of machine learning that 
uses artificial neural networks to handle large  
datasets and perform complex tasks. It’s inspired 
by the way the human brain, a natural neural  
network, processes information. Once again, 
AI is a broad field and machine learning is  
a subset of AI that drives the most powerful AIs 
that exist today, from large language models to  
image recognition. Then, supervised, unsupervised, 
reinforcement, and deep learning are subsets of  
machine learning. We’ll take a look at each of 
these learning methods in the following slides,  
but keep in mind that these aren’t the only types 
of machine learning. They’re just a few of the  
most prominent examples, and they aren’t always 
exclusive. They can be combined according to the  
needs of the particular application. For example, 
deep learning neural networks can be trained  
using any of the other three methods. Okay, now 
let’s look deeper into each of these four types.
We’ll start with supervised learning, which trains 
the model on a labeled dataset. This means that  
each input provided to the model for training has 
a corresponding label. By examining these labeled  
examples, the model learns the relationship 
between the data and its given labels,  
building its understanding during the training 
phase. For a simple example, let’s say we want to  
train the model to differentiate between photos 
of cats and photos of dogs. We start with a set  
of labeled training data, meaning each photo is 
labeled as either “cat” or “dog”. To train an AI  
you should have more than eight photos of course, 
but I’m just demonstrating the concept here. So,  
you feed the labeled data into the model, and it 
should, with enough data, build an understanding  
of what a cat looks like and what a dog 
looks like. Once the model has been trained,  
if you feed it an unlabeled photo of a dog, it 
should be able to identify it as a dog. And it  
should be able to do the same for a photo of 
a cat, too. By training on labeled examples,  
the model learns to classify new, unseen data with 
high accuracy. So, what are the main advantages  
and disadvantages of this method of machine 
learning? Well, if labeled data is available,  
supervised learning is highly accurate. When 
training the model, it’s not going to misinterpret  
a cat as a dog, because the cat is already labeled 
as a cat. But it requires large, labeled datasets,  
which can be expensive and time-consuming 
to create. As I said before, you’re going  
to need a lot more than eight photos to create 
an accurate model. Another advantage is that  
it’s straightforward to understand and implement. 
The data is already labeled, so you just need to  
train the model with as much data as possible 
and it should develop a good understanding  
of each label’s characteristics. And one more 
disadvantage is that the output is limited to the  
labels in the training data. For example, if you 
train the model only to classify cats and dogs,  
it won’t be able recognize or classify a photo 
of a bird. This means supervised learning isn’t  
ideal for tasks requiring flexibility 
or identifying entirely new categories.
Let’s move on to unsupervised learning, 
which trains the model on an unlabeled  
dataset. This means that no predefined labels are 
provided. Instead of being told what each data  
point represents, the model analyzes the data to 
discover patterns, structures, or relationships on  
its own. It can then group similar data points 
into clusters based on shared features. Let’s  
use the same example as before, feeding the model 
photos of cats and dogs. In unsupervised learning,  
we feed the model unlabeled training data, so the 
images are provided without identifying them as  
"cat" or "dog". The model processes the data 
and looks for patterns or similarities among  
the images. Based on its analysis, it groups the 
images into clusters. Here, it has identified  
that the cat images all share similar features, 
grouping them into cluster 1. The dog photos,  
sharing their own set of features, are grouped 
into cluster 2. It doesn’t know what these  
clusters represent. It simply groups similar 
images together based on features like fur  
texture, shape, or color patterns. A human can 
then interpret these clusters and label cluster  
1 as "cat”, and cluster 2 as “dog”. Then, if 
you feed the model another image of a dog,  
it should be able to recognize that it has similar 
features to the other photos in cluster 2, and  
assign it to that cluster. And same if you feed it 
another photo of a cat. And if you feed it a photo  
that’s neither a cat nor a dog, like this bird, it 
recognizes that it doesn’t fit into either cluster  
and creates a new one. And a human can once again 
label that new cluster. So what are the advantages  
and disadvantages of unsupervised learning? One 
big advantage is that there’s no need for labeled  
data, so that saves a lot of time and cost in 
labeling huge data sets. But interpretation  
and labeling of the results by a human is 
still required to make sense of the results.  
Another benefit is that unsupervised 
learning can reveal hidden patterns or  
structures in data that might not be obvious to 
a human. For instance, it might group customers  
based on purchasing behavior, even if no explicit 
labels exist. Because the data isn’t pre-labeled,  
the model is free to group the data according 
to what it notices, not according to the strict  
labels used in supervised learning. But without 
labeled data, the model’s accuracy might be lower  
than supervised learning for specific tasks. 
Unsupervised learning is a powerful tool for  
discovering patterns and relationships, especially 
when labeled data isn’t available, but it requires  
human input to interpret results and might not 
always match the precision of supervised learning.
Next, let’s talk about reinforcement learning. 
Reinforcement learning trains a model by rewarding  
or penalizing its actions in a given environment 
to maximize its performance over time. The model  
learns to take actions within its environment that 
achieve the highest reward or best outcome. So,  
how does it work? First, the model, which is 
called an agent, interacts with an environment.  
It takes an action and receives feedback, which 
could be either a reward for a positive action or  
a penalty for a negative one. For example, if the 
AI is learning to play a game, actions that lead  
toward victory would be rewarded, and actions that 
lead toward defeat will be penalized. The agent  
uses this feedback to adjust its behavior and 
learn which actions lead to the best results. And  
the cycle repeats, allowing the model to improve 
its ability to take the correct actions over time.  
Let’s consider some examples of reinforcement 
learning in action. In self-driving cars,  
the agent learns how to navigate safely by trial 
and error, earning rewards for avoiding obstacles  
or staying in the lane. In game AI, reinforcement 
learning is used to master strategies in games  
like Chess, Go, or video games, where the agent 
learns by playing and improving over time. And  
in robotics, agents can be trained to perform 
complex tasks like walking, picking up objects,  
or assembling items through reinforcement. Like 
the other learning methods we covered, let’s  
consider a couple advantages and disadvantages. 
It’s capable of learning complex behaviors that  
are difficult to program manually. By allowing the 
model to interact with the environment on its own,  
it can learn these complex behaviors 
without manual coding. But it can  
be quite resource-intensive, requiring 
significant time and computational power,  
especially for complex environments. The model has 
to spend a lot of time and resources interacting  
with the environment. Another advantage is 
that it adapts well to dynamic environments,  
making it useful for tasks where conditions 
are constantly changing. Through reinforcement,  
the model can adapt automatically to changes. But 
if the reward system isn’t carefully designed,  
the agent might focus on short-term rewards 
rather than the best long-term outcome. So  
the system of rewards and penalties 
needs careful planning and design  
to avoid suboptimal learning. An interesting 
example of reinforcement learning is MarI/O,  
a program created by SethBling and shown in 
a YouTube video. MarI/O uses reinforcement  
learning to teach itself how to play a level 
of Super Mario World. It receives rewards for  
progressing through the level and, over many 
evolutionary generations, builds a model that  
can quickly and effectively navigate the level. 
MarI/O is not only an example of reinforcement  
learning. It also applies the principles 
of deep learning, which we’ll cover next.
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning 
that uses artificial neural networks to process  
and learn from large and complex datasets. An 
artificial neural network is a computational  
model inspired by how biological neural networks 
like the human brain process information. Data is  
passed through multiple layers of interconnected 
nodes, like the neurons in the human brain,  
with each layer extracting increasingly abstract 
features. These layers are what make deep learning  
so powerful. Note that deep learning isn’t 
entirely separate from the other methods we’ve  
looked at. Neural networks used in deep learning 
can be trained using supervised, unsupervised, or  
reinforcement methods. So, it’s essentially a more 
advanced way of applying these approaches to solve  
complex problems. A deep learning model consists 
of an input layer, which receives inputs like  
images. Then there are several “hidden layers”, 
I’ve shown three here but there could be thousands  
in some models. And then there is an output layer. 
And these layers are connected by a complex web of  
connections, processing data from the input layer 
and resulting in outputs in the output layer. For  
example, if the purpose of the model is image 
recognition, if you feed it an image of a cat,  
the result in the output layer should be “cat”. If 
you want to learn about how Deep Learning really  
works, I recommend watching the neural networks 
playlist by 3Blue1Brown on YouTube. It covers much  
more than you need to know for the CCNA exam, 
but is a great primer on how deep learning and  
neural networks work. So, what are the advantages 
and disadvantages of deep learning? First of all,  
it excels at handling large, unstructured datasets 
like images, audio, and text. Data that doesn’t  
have a clear, predefined structure; it doesn’t fit 
into traditional rows and columns of a database  
or spreadsheet. When it comes to tasks like 
image recognition, natural language processing,  
and autonomous driving, deep learning provides 
state-of-the-art performance. But it can be quite  
resource-intensive, requiring significant 
computational power and large datasets for  
training. And it’s often referred to as 
a "black box" because the hidden layers  
make it hard to interpret how the model 
arrives at its decisions. For instance,  
while the model might identify a cat accurately, 
it’s difficult to pinpoint which specific features  
it used to come to that conclusion. But 
regardless of any drawbacks, deep learning  
is one of the most powerful tools in artificial 
intelligence. Looking back again at MarI/O,  
notice the neural network that it has built to 
navigate through this stage of the game. While I  
showed MarI/O as an example of reinforcement 
learning, it uses reinforcement to train an  
artificial neural network, although deep learning 
models typically use many more layers than this.
So, those are the main types of machine 
learning we’ll cover in this video:  
supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement, 
and deep learning. As I mentioned before,  
these aren’t the only types of machine learning, 
and models can use combinations of these methods.  
For example, deep learning models can be 
trained using supervised, unsupervised,  
or reinforcement learning techniques. There’s also 
semi-supervised learning, which combines labeled  
and unlabeled data, enjoying the benefits 
of both methods. But these four types are  
what I recommend knowing for the CCNA exam. Now, 
let’s move on to predictive and generative AI,  
two key applications of AI that take advantage of 
machine learning, and especially deep learning.
Before we dive into each, let’s briefly define 
them. Predictive AI uses machine learning to  
analyze historical data and predict future 
outcomes or trends. A couple of examples are  
security anomaly detection in a network, or 
weather forecasting. And generative AI uses  
machine learning to learn patterns from existing 
data and create new content, such as text, images,  
or audio. Some well-known examples are 
ChatGPT and Gemini for text generation,  
or Midjourney and DALL-E for image generation.  
This diagram shows where predictive and generative 
AI fit within the fields of AI, machine learning,  
and deep learning. While the most powerful 
predictive and generative AIs today rely on deep  
learning, simpler AIs can also exist outside deep 
learning, using other machine learning methods.
Now let’s look a bit deeper into predictive 
AI. Predictive AI analyzes historical data  
to forecast future outcomes, trends, or events. It 
identifies patterns and correlations in past data,  
and applies those learned patterns to 
make predictions about new or future data.  
Predictive AI is very widely used for a variety 
of applications. Let’s list a few. In healthcare,  
it can predict patient outcomes 
or the progression of diseases,  
helping doctors make better treatment decisions. 
For example, AI can analyze an X-ray to identify  
diseases earlier than a doctor might in many 
cases. In network security, it’s used to detect  
anomalies that might indicate potential threats 
or failures. It’s also used in traffic management,  
where it can predict congestion based on both 
historical and real-time traffic data. I’m  
referring to road traffic here, but predictive 
AI can play the same role for network traffic,  
predicting congestion or potential 
bottlenecks based on usage patterns.  
Businesses rely on predictive AI for forecasting 
sales trends or understanding customer behavior,  
and meteorologists use it for weather forecasting, 
analyzing data to predict future conditions. Okay,  
those are just a few examples of predictive 
AI, now let’s consider its advantages and  
disadvantages. It improves decision-making by 
providing actionable insights, enabling you to  
detect potential problems before they occur, such 
as network issues or severe weather. But to do so,  
it requires high-quality and relevant historical 
data to be accurate. Without significant amounts  
of high-quality data, the AI isn’t likely to make 
accurate predictions. And its performance depends  
on how well the patterns in past data generalize 
to new scenarios. If the future is significantly  
different from the past, the model may 
struggle to make accurate predictions.
Now let’s look at generative AI, which is 
quite popular these days for a variety of uses.  
Generative AI learns patterns from existing data 
and creates new content, such as text, images,  
and audio. It focuses on producing outputs 
that resemble the input it was trained on,  
but are entirely new creations. For example, let’s 
say we train a generative AI model on labeled data  
of cats and dogs. This model learns the features 
of these animals. Then, if we give it a prompt,  
like “Generate an image of a cat,” the AI uses its 
understanding of patterns in cat images to create  
an entirely new picture of a cat that didn’t exist 
before. So, let’s consider some applications of  
generative AI. In text generation, tools like 
ChatGPT, Gemini, and Copilot can generate  
human-like text for tasks such as answering 
questions, writing code, or writing emails.  
These are called large language models, LLMs. For 
image generation, AIs like Midjourney and DALL-E  
create detailed artwork from text prompts, like 
the diagram above. And in video generation, tools  
like OpenAI’s Sora and Google’s Veo 2 can generate 
realistic videos based on user input. Now,  
let’s look at its advantages and disadvantages. 
First of all, it’s great for creative tasks where  
human input is limited or time-consuming. For 
example, a generative AI chatbot can take over  
a lot of online customer service from humans, only 
escalating to a human when necessary. Generative  
AI enables the automation of content creation 
across various fields. But this, of course,  
has its downsides. There is a major risk of 
misuse, such as deepfakes and plagiarism. There’s  
also the problem that generated content is only 
as good as the quality of the training material,  
as well as the model itself. Let’s be honest, 
there’s a lot of AI slop out there. I’ve even seen  
an entirely AI-generated CCNA course. Fortunately 
for me, AI isn’t ready to take my job just yet,  
but that could very well change in the future. And 
since I mentioned the material used to train these  
AIs, there are serious copyright issues regarding 
these models, both in the data used to train them  
and in the outputs they generate. Finally, one 
more thing worth mentioning is the problem of  
hallucinations; basically, making up answers that 
are totally incorrect. This is the main reason why  
I recommend avoiding large language models like 
ChatGPT when you’re studying for the CCNA. It  
just isn’t reliable enough. But regardless, 
generative AI is clearly a very effective  
tool that many of us use daily for various 
tasks, and it will only get better from here.
So far in this video, we’ve looked at AI and 
machine learning from a more general perspective,  
but let’s move on to consider some applications of 
predictive and generative AI to networking. First,  
here are a few ways that predictive AI can be 
applied to networking. Traffic forecasting is  
one application. By analyzing past traffic 
patterns, AI can predict future patterns,  
providing insights into how to optimize bandwidth 
allocation and prevent congestion. For example,  
the AI could advise you to increase the 
bandwidth of a particular link with EtherChannel,  
or optimize the QoS policy to allow important 
traffic to get through without delay. Security  
threat detection is another important application. 
If the AI notices anomalies, it can predict that  
an attack is occurring or about to occur, helping 
to minimize the damage. It can also be applied  
to what’s called predictive maintenance. By 
anticipating hardware failures in advance,  
you can proactively replace faulty hardware before 
it causes a major issue. And what about generative  
AI? It has several uses, and I’ll demonstrate 
a few ways you can use ChatGPT for some of  
these applications as well. First, you can use 
generative AI for documentation. For example,  
by providing information about your network and 
its configurations, the AI can automatically  
generate documentation for your network. Or 
you can use AI to help with generating the  
configurations themselves based on the policies 
and requirements you provide. For example, in this  
clip I provide a simple network diagram to ChatGPT 
and ask it to generate configurations that enable  
full connectivity in the network. The generated 
configurations can then be copied and pasted into  
the devices, after verifying that they’re correct, 
of course. Another application is network design.  
Generative AI can suggest designs tailored to your 
specific needs, offering advice and optimizations.  
Troubleshooting is another useful application. You 
can provide log files or error messages and get  
help in the troubleshooting process. For example, 
in this clip I share a log message with ChatGPT,  
and it outlines the cause of the message, as 
well as steps to fix the issue. You should  
always verify what ChatGPT says, don’t follow 
it blindly, but it can be very helpful in the  
troubleshooting process. And the last use case 
I’ll mention for now is script generation. You  
can use AI to automatically generate network 
automation scripts, such as Python scripts to  
configure network devices. In other words, you 
can automate your automation. In this clip I do  
just that, asking ChatGPT to generate a script 
to configure a router. Let me repeat myself:  
always double-check before using anything ChatGPT 
gives you in a real network, as it can hallucinate  
and make mistakes. But there’s no doubt that it 
has many very useful applications to networking.
Finally, let’s cover some features of Cisco 
Catalyst Center that leverage AI. Although  
the exam topics list doesn’t say you need to know 
these AI features for the exam, it’s good to have  
a general idea of how Catalyst Center uses AI. 
So, Catalyst Center, which used to be called DNA  
Center, features a variety of AI-enabled features 
to identify issues before they impact users,  
reduce the time required to resolve issues, 
and increase the performance and security of  
the network. I’ll list some of the features and 
then show what some of them look like in Catalyst  
Center’s GUI, but if you want a more detailed 
look you can check out this video from Cisco,  
Discovering the secrets of AI and ML in Cisco 
Catalyst Center. I made this short link that  
will redirect you to it, jitl.jp/cat-ai, or you 
can just google the title to find it. You don’t  
have to know everything covered in this video for 
the CCNA, but check it out if you’re interested.
So, what are some of those AI features in 
Catalyst Center? One is AI Network Analytics,  
which is actually an umbrella term that includes 
several other features within it. Basically,  
it’s all about using AI, specifically machine 
learning, to establish the baseline behavior  
of the network. In other words, it determines 
what is considered “normal” for this network.  
It can then provide insights and 
recommendations for optimizing the  
network, and monitor to predict and detect 
anomalies, things outside of the baseline.
Here’s a screenshot showing one small part of 
AI Network Analytics. As the legend here shows,  
green indicates the predicted 
value, or rather range of values,  
which is the baseline that has been 
established. And blue shows the actual value,  
in this case the amount of time it took 
hosts to lease an address with DHCP. And  
the bottom two graphs show the same thing for 
authentication and association times; this data  
here is about Wi-Fi connections, but AI Network 
Analytics is not limited to Wi-Fi, of course.
And now let’s continue with the Machine Reasoning 
Engine, MRE, which uses AI to perform root-cause  
analysis when network issues arise. It can then 
suggest resolutions or take automated corrective  
actions to fix the issue. So, this reduces 
downtime by identifying and resolving issues  
faster than traditional methods. Traditional 
methods might be something like a user complains  
about a network issue, you investigate and try 
to identify the issue, make some sort of change  
to remedy it, and then hope it solves the problem. 
MRE can potentially automate that entire process.
Here’s a quick look at MRE in 
action. MRE identified an issue,  
an interface that is down. Here you can see 
its reasoning process; the root cause analysis  
that it performs to identify what caused the 
issue. And you can see more details here. Now,  
I don’t have access to Catalyst Center with 
MRE in my lab, so I got this screenshot from  
this presentation from Cisco, by the way. If 
you want to know more about Catalyst Center,  
Cisco has plenty of documentation and 
video demos, so they’re worth checking out.
Okay, next we have AI Endpoint Analytics. As 
the name suggests, this focuses on endpoints,  
the devices connected to the network. AI endpoint 
analytics identifies and classifies devices on the  
network, providing detailed visibility into those 
devices and what they’re doing on the network.  
It detects unauthorized devices or unusual 
behavior, for example identifying devices engaged  
in malicious behavior on the network. And it 
simplifies device onboarding by automating  
profiling and segmentation. What that means 
is, when a device connects to the network,  
Catalyst Center can identify what kind of 
device it is and apply appropriate security  
policies. This enhances security and also simply 
reduces workload by automating these tasks. Okay,  
the final feature I’ll mention is 
AI-enhanced radio resource management,  
RRM. This is referring to Wi-Fi: it optimizes 
wireless network performance by dynamically  
adjusting radio settings on access points. And 
it uses AI to balance load among different APs,  
reduce interference through 
appropriate channel selection,  
and improve coverage by automatically adjusting 
the transmit power of each access point.
Here’s one small look at AI-enhanced RRM. Here 
we see statistics about channel utilization and  
interference. And down here some more data about 
RRM. Notice here it states RRM changes: changes  
that AI has made to optimize Wi-Fi performance in 
the LAN. Okay, that’s all for our quick look at  
AI in Catalyst Center. Cisco has several products 
that incorporate AI in a variety of ways, but for  
the CCNA you should just focus on the basics of 
AI and machine learning we covered in this video.
Before moving on to the quiz, let’s summarize 
what we covered. Artificial intelligence, AI,  
uses computers to simulate intelligence, capable 
of pattern recognition, learning, problem solving,  
and other tasks. Machine learning, ML, is a 
subset of AI that focuses on enabling computers to  
automatically learn from data and improve without 
the need for explicit programming. But like AI,  
ML is a wide field and there are a variety of ways 
that a computer can learn. We covered four. The  
first was supervised learning, in which the model 
is trained on labeled data to make predictions or  
classifications on new data. I used the example 
of training the AI on labeled photos of dogs and  
cats. Then there’s unsupervised learning, in 
which the model is trained on unlabeled data  
to find patterns, relationships, or groupings in 
the data on its own without a human labeling the  
data beforehand. In reinforcement learning, the 
model learns by interacting with an environment,  
and receiving penalties or rewards based on its 
actions. Self-driving cars and game AIs are great  
applications of this. Finally, deep learning uses 
multi-layered neural networks, inspired by how the  
human brain works, to handle large datasets and 
perform complex tasks; more than is typically  
possible with other forms of machine learning. 
Okay, next we covered predictive and generative  
AI. Predictive AI uses machine learning to analyze 
historical data and predict future outcomes  
or trends. In networking, this can be applied to 
network traffic forecasting, threat detection,  
and predictive maintenance, to give a few 
examples. And generative AI uses machine learning  
to learn patterns from existing data and create 
new content, such as text and images. ChatGPT  
and other popular large language models are good 
examples of this. In networking, a few possible  
applications are configuration generation, 
troubleshooting, and script generation.  
This diagram shows the position of predictive and 
generative AI within the fields of deep learning,  
machine learning, and AI as a whole. Finally, 
I introduced a few AI-enablde features of Cisco  
Catalyst Center. The four I focused on were AI 
network analytics, the machine reasoning engine,  
AI endpoint analytics, and AI-enhanced 
radio resource management. Okay,  
that’s all we covered in the video. Now let’s move 
on to a quick quiz to test your understanding.
Here’s quiz question one. Which of 
the following types of ML imitates  
the human brain? Pause the video 
now to think about your answer.
Okay, the answer is C, deep learning. Deep 
learning mimics the structure and functioning  
of the human brain by using artificial neural 
networks with multiple layers. These networks  
process information hierarchically, similar to how 
the brain processes data, enabling deep learning  
models to identify complex patterns and make 
predictions. Okay, let’s go to the next question.
Here’s question 2. Which of the following Catalyst  
Center features leverages AI to perform 
a root-cause analysis of network issues  
and propose resolutions? Pause the 
video now to think about your answer.
Okay, the answer is C, MRE, which stands for 
Machine Reasoning Engine. MRE leverages AI to  
perform root-cause analysis of network issues 
and propose resolutions. It can also take  
automated corrective actions to resolve issues 
without human intervention. Okay, next question.
Here’s question 3. Which of the 
following statements are true?  
Select three. Pause the video 
now to think about your answers.
Okay, the correct answers are A, D, and 
F. Reinforcement learning relies on a  
reward/penalty system to train models based on 
actions taken. It is particularly effective for  
game AIs, where agents learn strategies by 
maximizing rewards. Unsupervised learning  
uses unlabeled datasets to find patterns 
in data, unlike supervised learning,  
which requires labeled data. B is incorrect 
because supervised learning works with data  
that is already labeled and is not 
suited to discovering hidden patterns;  
unsupervised learning is better for that. C is 
incorrect because, although the most powerful  
predictive and generative AIs use deep learning, 
it’s not a strict requirement for a predictive or  
generative AI. And E is incorrect as supervised 
and unsupervised learning can complement each  
other, and this is called semi-supervised 
learning. Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
And that’s all for this video on AI and machine 
learning. While a fundamental understanding of  
the basics we covered in this video 
should be enough for the CCNA exam,  
there’s no doubt that AI’s role in networking 
will only grow in the future. AI definitely  
has the potential to revolutionize network 
automation, so I’m looking forward to what  
the future brings. I hope this video 
was helpful. Thanks for watching!

######################################################################
# VIDEO 120: Free CCNA | JSON, XML, & YAML | Day 60 | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
# Domain: 6-Automation
######################################################################

Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is a free,
complete course for the CCNA. If you like
these videos, please subscribe to follow along
with the series. Also, please like and leave
a comment, and share the video to help spread
this free series of videos. Thanks for your
help. In this video we will look at JSON,
XML, and YAML. These are known as data serialization
languages, or data serialization formats.
These allow us to format or structure data
in a standardized way so it can be communicated
between applications. This is covered in exam
topic 6.7, which says you must be able to
interpret JSON encoded data. Note that it
only mentions JSON, not XML or YAML. So, the
majority of this video will focus on JSON,
but at the end I will take a bit of time to
compare JSON to two other popular data serialization
languages, XML and YAML.
Here’s what we’ll cover in this video.
First I’ll briefly introduce data serialization
and why we need it. Then I’ll cover JSON.
This will be the main part of this video,
and we’ll focus on how to interpret basic
JSON-encoded data. Then I’ll briefly introduce
XML and YAML, so you can compare and contrast
them with JSON. However I won’t spend so
much time on those two, since they’re not
mentioned in the exam topics list. And make
sure to watch until the end of the video for
a bonus practice question from Boson Software’s
ExSim, the best practice exams for the CCNA.
So, let’s take a look at what data serialization
is. It is the process of converting data into
a standardized format, or structure, that
can be stored, for example in a file, or transmitted,
for example over a network, and then be reconstructed
later, perhaps by a different application.
Why is that useful? It allows the data to
be communicated between applications in a
way both applications can understand. If one
application is written in Python, and the
other is written in Java, both languages store
data differently so they need some standard
format to send data between each other. Data
serialization languages, for example JSON,
allow us to represent variables with text.
Now, what is a variable? Here are some examples
of variables. Interface name, gigabitethernet1/1.
Status, up. IP address, 192.168.1.1. Netmask,
255.255.255.0. These are four variables. Basically,
variables are containers that store values.
For example ‘interface_name’ is a container,
and it contains the value ‘gigabitethernet1/1’
inside of it. ‘Status’ is another container,
and inside there is the value ‘up’. So,
let’s see how data exchanges would work
without the use of a standard data serialization
format. The client, for example an app trying
to get information from an SDN controller,
sends a GET message. The server, the controller,
sends those variables directly to the client
without converting them to a standard format
like JSON. However, the client doesn’t understand
the data it received. The app and the controller
are programs written in different languages
and they store data differently, they can’t
communicate directly.
So let’s see how a data serialization language
such as JSON fixes that. The client sends
a GET request. The requested variables are
sent to the API, which converts them to a
standard format, JSON, and sends them over
the network to the client. Because the variables
are in a standard format that both the client
and the server understand, the client is able
to take those variables and convert them into
its own native format. Now, we haven’t looked
at any details about how APIs work yet, I
will cover them in the next video. So, this
process might not be totally clear for you
yet, but I’m sure you can see the benefit
of having a standard data format like JSON
to allow these two programs to share data
with each other.
Now let’s take a look at JSON. JSON, which
stands for JavaScript Object Notation, is
an open standard file format and data interchange
format, meaning it can be used to store data
as files or to send data over a network, that
uses human-readable text to store and transmit
data objects. So, although it’s used to
exchange data between machines, so it must
be easily machine-readable of course, it’s
also quite human-readable. It’s easy for
us to read and understand. It is standardized
in RFC 8259, which you can access at this
URL. Or just do a google search for RFC 8259.
I recommend taking the time to read it. If
you’re not used to reading technical documentation
like this it might be a bit difficult to understand
at first, but it’s the best source to really
understand JSON. Anyway, JSON was derived
from JavaScript, but it is language-independent
and many modern programming languages are
able to generate and read JSON data. Note
that REST APIs often use JSON, which is why
Cisco expects you to learn the basics of JSON
for the CCNA exam. In JSON, whitespace is
insignificant. What does that mean? Well,
I’ll demonstrate with examples later, but
basically it means that spaces and linebreaks
don’t matter. They don’t change the meaning
of the data. In JSON, there are four primitive
data types. In the next slide I’ll demonstrate
them, but they are string, number, boolean,
and null. In addition, there are two structured
data types, object and array. Let’s look
at these six data types and see how JSON data
is actually formatted.
First up, the primitive data types. A string
is a text value, and it is surrounded by double
quotes. Here are some examples of strings.
Hello. Notice that it is surrounded by double
quotes. This means it is a string, a series
of alphanumeric characters. These are all
also strings. So, remember that if it’s
contained within double quotes, it’s a string,
a simple text value. Next, a number is simply
a numeric value. It is not surrounded by quotes.
So, 5, 100, or any other number. Note that
the five in the string examples with the double
quotes is a string, a text value, but the
5 down here without double quotes is a number,
a numeric value. They are different data types.
Next, a boolean is a data type that has only
two possible values. Those are true and false.
Note that they are written without quotes.
In a networking setting, perhaps on an OSPF-enabled
interface a variable named ‘passive’ would
have the boolean value ‘true’ if the interface
is passive, and if the interface isn’t passive
the variable would have the boolean value
‘false’. That’s just one example of
how boolean values could be used. Note that
in the string examples I included “true”
with double quotes. That isn’t a boolean
value, that’s just the word ‘true’,
a series of letters. However when written
without double quotes, it is a boolean value.
Finally, note that they are written all lower-case,
no capital T in true or capital F in false.
The final primitive data type is null, which
represents the intentional absence of any
object value. It’s simply written as null,
lower case n u l l, without quotes. This simply
means there is no value, it means nothing.
Again, in the string examples I included “null”
in double quotes. That is a string, because
it is contained within double quotes. It does
not express a null value, it just means the
word ‘null’. Okay, those are the four
primitive JSON data types. String, number,
boolean, and null.
Now let’s go on to the structured data types,
there are two. First, an object is an unordered
list of key-value pairs, basically variables.
Unordered means the order of the variables
doesn’t matter. Objects are surrounded by
curly brackets. The key, which is basically
the name of the variable, the container, must
be a string. So, it must use double quotes.
Then the value inside of that variable can
be any valid JSON data type. A string, number,
boolean, null, object, or array. The key and
the value are separated by a colon, and if
there are multiple key-value pairs in the
object, each pair is separated by a comma.
Okay, let’s look at some examples to help
you visualize it. This is one JSON object.
Note the curly bracket at the top indicating
the start of the object, and the curly bracket
closing it at the bottom. Inside there are
five key-value pairs. Before looking at this
object in more detail, I want to show you
this. This is the exact same object. As I
said before, in JSON whitespace is insignificant,
it has no meaning. Of course, for humans the
one on the left is easier to read, but computers
don’t care either way.
So, I’ve colored the keys blue and the values
red. All of this is one JSON object, but let’s
look at the data type of each individual key
and value. First, the top one. “interface”
in double quotes, that’s the key. Then notice
a colon separating the key and the value,
which is “gigabitethernet1/1” in double
quotes. So, the key and value are both strings,
they both have double quotes. Remember that
the key must be a string, but the value can
be any valid JSON data type. Notice that there
is a comma after as well, because if there
are multiple key-value pairs in an object,
each pair is separated by a comma. Okay, in
the next key-value pair under it the key is
“is_up”. It’s a string, of course. Notice
the colon between the key “is_up” and
the value, which is true, written without
double quotes. That is a boolean. This probably
indicates that the interface status is up,
because of the value true for the key “is_up”.
Again, notice the comma after this key-value
pair, because there is another key-value pair
after it. For these next two examples, the
values are both strings, because they are
contained within double quotes. Notice the
standard JSON formatting again. The key is
always a string, there is a colon between
the key and value, and there is a comma after
each key-value pair. Now let’s look at the
final pair. What data type is the value 1000?
It’s a number, a numeric value not contained
in double quotes. And notice that this time
there is no comma after the value. That’s
because it’s the last key-value pair in
this object. Okay, so that’s a basic JSON
object with multiple key-value pairs inside.
Now, as you can see in the following example,
objects are a valid data type for the value
of a key-value pair. I’ve colored the curly
brackets to make it a bit easier to see, but
I want you to pause the video to try to interpret
this data. Find the key value pairs. It’s
important that you get comfortable reading
JSON-formatted data, as it’s clearly stated
in the CCNA exam. Okay, so this example is
one JSON object, indicated by the red curly
brackets at the top and bottom. Inside of
this object there are two key-value pairs.
Here’s one key-value pair. The key is “device”,
a string of course, and the value is an object,
indicated by the blue curly brackets. So,
we have an object inside of an object. Note
that objects within objects are called ‘nested
objects’. Now, within that value, the object,
there are multiple key-value pairs. “name”:”R1”
is a key-value pair, “vendor”:”Cisco”
is a key-value pair, and “model”:”1101”
is a key-value pair. Now down here we have
one more key-value pair, and again the value
is an object, indicated by the purple curly
brackets. And inside of that object there
are again more key-value pairs. I’m keeping
this fairly easy to read by using indenting
and using line breaks and different colors,
but keep in mind that JSON data won’t always
look like this. The whitespace is insignificant
and only used to make it easier for us to
read, but applications themselves don’t
need this whitespace.
Okay, now there is one more JSON structured
data type to look at, and that is the array.
An array is a series of values separated by
commas. Note that it’s not a series of key-value
pairs, that’s an object. It’s just a series
of values. And note that the values don’t
have to be the same data type. One could be
a string, and another a number, for example.
So, here I’ve got one JSON object with two
key-value pairs, and both of the values are
arrays. The first array, the value of the
“interfaces” key, lists three interface
names, with a comma between each of them.
Note that there is no comma after gigabitethernet1/3,
because it’s the last value. And then the
second array has two values, “Hi” and
5. Note that “Hi” is a string and 5 is
a number, because it has no double quotes.
So, as you can see the values don’t necessarily
have to be the same type, although often they
will be. If you need to, pause the video now
to look at this example and make sure you
understand it, as well as the previous examples.
Just listening to me talk about JSON won’t
help you interpret it if you don’t practice
actually looking at and understanding JSON-formatted
data.
For reference, here is the output of SHOW
IP INTERFACE BRIEF, and a version of the same
output in JSON. Note that this isn’t actual
JSON output from a Cisco device, I just wrote
this JSON data myself. The point is that,
although SHOW command outputs in the CLI are
easy for us humans to read, they aren’t
in a format that is easy for computers to
understand. JSON, on the other hand, is very
easy for computers to understand, and if we
format the text properly like this it’s
also quite human-readable too. Anyway, pause
the video if you want to compare this SHOW
command output and the JSON data.
Okay, so we’ve looked at all of the six
JSON data types. There are four primitive
data types: string, number, boolean, and null,
and two structured data types: object and
array. One more point, note that an object
is sometimes called a dictionary. Same thing,
just a different name, but you should be aware
of it. Okay, that’s all for JSON for now.
We’ll take a quick look at XML and YAML,
and then in the quiz for today’s video we’ll
get lots of practice interpreting JSON data.
So, here’s XML. XML was developed as a markup
language, but is now used as a general data
serialization language. You know what a data
serialization language is, but what’s a
markup language? Markup languages are used
to format text, for example HTML, which you’ve
probably heard of, is a markup language. XML
is generally less human-readable than JSON,
although it’s not so difficult to read.
Like JSON, whitespace is insignificant, although
you’ll often see it displayed with spaces
and line breaks to make it more human-readable.
XML is also often used by REST APIs, same
as JSON. The general format you need to know
is this: the key is tagged like this, with
the value in the middle. For example, on Cisco
IOS you can use a SHOW command, pipe the command
with the FORMAT keyword, and it will display
it in XML. I used SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF,
pipe, FORMAT, and here is the output in XML
format. I’ve colored the output to make
it easier to see, so I think you can easily
see the keys and values. We have two interfaces,
each marked with ENTRY tags. Within each entry
we have Interface, IP-address, OK, Method,
Status, and Protocol keys, and the value is
in the middle of those keys. For example,
here we have an  tag, with a value
of GigabitEthernet0/0, and then a forward
slash interface tag to close it off.
And here you can compare the regular SHOW
IP INTERFACE BRIEF output with the XML-formatted
output, without any coloring in the XML this
time. XML is generally thought to be less
human-readable than JSON, but it’s still
not so hard to read when formatted like this.
So, that’s all I’ll say about XML. If
you’re familiar with HTML, it looks quite
similar. Remember basic characteristics like
the key-value pair format for variables using
tags, remember that whitespace is insignificant,
and remember that it’s similar to HTML and
also used by REST APIs. If you want to take
some time to examine this output pause the
video, but now I’ll move on.
Finally, let’s take a brief look at YAML.
The name YAML originally meant Yet Another
Markup Language, but to distinguish its purpose
as a data-serialization language rather than
a markup language, it was repurposed to YAML
Aint Markup Language. That’s known as a
recursive acronym by the way, when the acronym
itself is part of the acronym. YAML is used
by the network automation tool Ansible, which
we’ll cover in another video. It has all
sorts of other uses too, of course, but its
use in Ansible is relevant to our current
topic, network automation. YAML is very human-readable,
and whitespace is significant, unlike JSON
and XML. So, indentation is very important.
We aren’t free to format the text however
we want. YAML files start with three hyphens,
and one hyphen is used to indicate a list.
Key value pairs are represented as key colon
value. There are more rules to YAML, of course,
but I’ll leave it there. Here’s an example
of YAML. This is the same SHOW IP INTERFACE
BRIEF data I showed you in JSON and XML. It
looks quite simple compared to JSON and XML.
And for comparison, here it is next to JSON.
As you can see, both languages are quite human-readable,
and they’re also used by applications to
communicate data. So, that’s all I’ll
say about YAML. You don’t need to know it
or XML as much as you need to know JSON, but
you should know basic things such as the fact
that whitespace is significant in YAML, and
that it’s used in Ansible, because we’ll
be studying Ansible in a future video.
Here’s what we covered in this video. I
gave a basic introduction to data serialization
and why we need it. Basically, it’s to provide
a standard data format so applications can
communicate the data with each other. Then
I introduced JSON, XML, and YAML, focusing
primarily on JSON because it’s the one you
really need to know for the CCNA. Now, in
today’s quiz I will give more questions
than usual so you can practice reading and
interpreting JSON data. And make sure to watch
until the end of the quiz for a bonus question
from Boson Software’s ExSim, the best practice
exams for the CCNA. Okay, let’s go to quiz
question 1.
In which of the following data serialization
languages is whitespace significant? Pause
the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, YAML. In JSON and XML
whitespace is not significant, it has no meaning.
However in YAML whitespace is significant,
so things like indentation are very important.
Okay, let’s go to question 2.
Which of the following data serialization
languages formats key-value pairs like this?
Key, value, and then forward slash key. Pause
the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is C, XML. XML uses HTML-like
tags like this to indicate key-value pairs.
Okay, let’s go to question 3.
Which of the following is NOT a valid JSON
data type? Pause the video now to select the
best answer.
Okay, the answer is E, key. Although JSON
defines key-value pairs, key isn’t actually
a data type. All keys must be strings, and
string is a valid data type. Okay, let’s
go to question 4.
Examine the JSON-formatted data. Which of
the following statements is true? Pause the
video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is C, there are too many
commas. Here I’ve highlighted the extra
comma. A comma is required between separate
key-value pairs in an object, but you should
not put a comma after the last key-value pair.
Okay, let’s go to question 5.
Examine the JSON-formatted data. Which of
the following statements is true? Pause the
video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, the value of “ip_interfaces”
is an array. Now, within that array there
are multiple objects, but as these square
brackets indicate, the value itself is an
array, that’s the JSON data type. Okay,
let’s go to question 6.
Which of the following is an example of valid
JSON-formatted data? Pause the video now to
select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is D. Let me point out the
errors in the others. In A, there is a comma
after the “interfaces” key. It should
be a colon. In B, there is a colon after this
value 5. A colon should only be used between
the key and value of a key-value pair, it
is not valid here. And in C, there is a missing
comma between gigabitethernet1/1 and gigabitethernet1/2.
If multiple values are listed in an array,
there must be a comma between each of them.
There are no problems with D, it is valid
JSON data. Okay, let’s go to question 7.
Examine the JSON-formatted data. Which of
the following statements is true? Pause the
video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is A, the value of “is_up”
is a boolean. I’ve highlighted it here.
It’s true, written without double quotes,
so it is a boolean value. Booleans can be
true or false, and they are written without
quotes. Okay, let’s go to question 8.
Examine the JSON-formatted data. Which of
the following statements is true? Pause the
video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is D, it is valid JSON data.
No comma or curly brackets are missing, and
whitespace is insignificant in JSON, so this
is validly formatted. We often use indentation
and line breaks to make it easier to read,
but whitespace like that is unnecessary and
doesn’t have any meaning in JSON. Okay,
let’s go to question 9.
Examine the JSON-formatted data. Which of
the following statements is true? I think
this question will be a bit more of a challenge.
Make sure each opening curly bracket has a
closing curly bracket, each opening square
bracket has a closing square bracket, each
string has double quotes, etc. Pause the video
to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is C, a square bracket is
missing. The value of the “routes” key
is an array, it has an opening square bracket,
but in the example on the left there is no
closing square bracket for that array. Again,
make sure to check carefully that each opening
bracket has a closing bracket. Let’s go
to question 10.
Examine the JSON-formatted data. Which of
the following statements is true? Pause the
video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is A, it is valid JSON data.
There are no missing curly brackets or square
brackets, and the value of “dhcp4” is
a string, not a boolean. Okay, I hope this
practice was helpful for you. That’s all
for the quiz. Now let’s take a look at a
bonus question from Boson Software’s ExSim
for CCNA.

######################################################################
# VIDEO 121: Free CCNA | REST APIs | Day 61 | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
# Domain: 6-Automation
######################################################################

Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
In this video we will look at REST APIs.
APIs are used to allow programs to exchange
information with each other.
They are important for network automation
because they allow our programs to easily
interact with network devices and controllers.
REST APIs specifically are commonly used for
the Northbound interface in SDN architecture.
I’ve already briefly introduced REST APIs
and SDN, but in this video we’ll look at
REST APIs in greater depth, and then in the
next we’ll do the same for SDN.
This video will cover exam topic 6.5, which
states that you must be able to describe characteristics
of REST-based APIs.
So, as with all of the exam topics in this
section, Cisco doesn’t expect you to master
the use of REST APIs, they just expect you
to have a foundational understanding.
Here’s what we’ll cover in this video.
First I’ll briefly review APIs.
Then I’ll introduce CRUD operations and
HTTP.
CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, and
Delete, and it refers to the different actions
we perform when using REST APIs.
HTTP also uses CRUD operations, and REST APIs
often use HTTP as their communication protocol
over the network, so it’s important to understand
HTTP.
Then I’ll outline the characteristics of
REST APIs, and finally we’ll use Cisco DevNet
to try out a couple basic REST API Calls,
and it’s free to use so you can follow along
too.
Make sure to watch until the end of the video
for a bonus practice question from Boson Software’s
ExSim, the best practice exams for the CCNA.
So, let’s quickly review what an API is.
An API, application programming interface,
is a software interface that allows two applications
to communicate with each other.
They are essential not just for network automation,
but for all kinds of applications.
If you want other applications to be able
to access data from your application, you
should design an API that allows them to access
it.
Here’s that basic diagram of SDN architecture
again, which we’ll cover in greater detail
in the next video.
In SDN architecture, APIs are used to communicate
between apps and the SDN controller via the
northbound interface, and between the SDN
controller and the network devices via the
southbound interface.
The NBI typically uses REST APIs, the topic
of this video.
Some other examples of APIs that can be used
to configure network devices via the southbound
interface are NETCONF and RESTCONF, but we
won’t cover those in this video.
You’ll have to learn more about those for
the CCNP and beyond, however.
So, let’s take a look at CRUD.
CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete,
and it refers to the operations we perform
using REST APIs.
But this CRUD framework isn’t just used
by REST APIs, and I’ll introduce it using
HTTP in the next slide.
First let’s look at the definition of each
of those operations.
Create operations are used to create new variables
and set their initial values.
For example, you could create a variable “ip_address”
and set the value to “10.1.1.1”.
Read operations are used to retrieve the value
of a variable, for example you could then
ask ‘What is the value of variable “ip_address”?
Update operations are used to change the value
of a variable, for example you could change
the value of the variable “ip_address”
to “10.2.3.4”.
And finally delete operations are used to
delete variables, so you could delete the
variable “ip_address”.
So, those are the CRUD operations, now let’s
look at HTTP.
First, why should I talk about HTTP, even
though this video is about REST?
First, HTTP uses ‘verbs’ or ‘methods’
that map to these CRUD operations, and these
CRUD operations match the actions we typically
want to perform with an application.
When an HTTP client sends a request to an
HTTP server, it includes a verb indicating
what the client wants to do.
For example, if the client is trying to access
a web page on a server, it will use the GET
verb to retrieve that web page, to get it,
from the server.
And for this reason, among others, REST APIs
typically use HTTP as their application-layer
protocol to communicate over the network.
So, let’s compare these CRUD operations
to HTTP verbs.
Here is a simple chart.
The HTTP verb POST is used to create a new
variable.
The equivalent of a read operation is GET.
There are two main options for the update
operation, PUT and PATCH, and the verb for
the delete operation is simply DELETE.
You don’t have to know the exact details
of these verbs, but definitely know which
ones are used for which CRUD operation.
The flashcards will help with remembering
them.
There are other HTTP verbs too, and you can
see them in this guide from Mozilla if you
want to learn more.
Let’s look more at how those verbs are used.
When an HTTP client, or a REST client using
HTTP, sends a request to a server, it includes
some information such as an HTTP verb, which
I just introduced and a URI, uniform resource
identifier, indicating the resource it is
trying to access.
So, here we have a server storing data as
variables, with a URI for each resource.
The client sends a GET message, for example,
trying to retrieve the resource with URI A.
The server would then send a response, but
I’ll get into the details of the response
soon.
Here’s an example of a URI, and I’ll use
this URI later when demonstrating a REST API
call on Cisco DevNet.
Note the three main sections.
First is the scheme, which is basically the
protocol.
In this case HTTP, or more specifically HTTPS,
HTTP Secure, is the protocol.
Then there is the authority.
This is basically the address, or hostname,
you are sending the request to.
After that is the path, this indicates the
resource you want to access.
Now, the Verb and URI are just part of the
HTTP request, let’s look at some more of
an HTTP request.
The HTTP request can include additional headers
which pass additional information to the server.
There is a great list at this page here from
Mozilla.
Here’s an example of an HTTP request message.
On the outside there is an IP header and a
TCP header, then the HTTP verb and URI, followed
by some additional headers and data.
An example header would be the Accept header,
which informs the server about the type or
types of data that can be sent back to the
client.
The client might say I accept JSON data or
XML data, for example.
There’s another list of standard HTTP headers
here on Wikipedia, and there are examples
for each header so you can see what kind of
information is included.
Now, before I continue I want to clarify once
more why I’m spending so much time talking
about HTTP in a video that’s supposed to
be about REST APIs.
It’s because when a REST client makes an
API call, a request to a REST server, it will
send an HTTP request like the one above.
So, you have to understand some basics about
HTTP.
Note that REST APIs don’t actually HAVE
to use HTTP for communication, although HTTP
is the most common choice.
For the purpose of the CCNA you can assume
that REST APIs use HTTP, but just keep in
mind that HTTP is a specific communication
protocol, and REST is a framework for building
APIs.
They aren’t the same thing, and they aren’t
always used together.
Now, after the client’s HTTP request the
server has to send a response.
Let’s look a bit at what is in that response.
The server’s response will include a status
code indicating if the request succeeded or
failed, as well as other details.
You might not know it, but I’m sure you’ve
seen at least one of these codes before.
The first digit indicates the class, the type,
of the response.
Here are the different classes.
If the response code begins with a 1, it is
an informational response.
This indicates that the server received the
request, but the exact meaning beyond that
depends on the remaining two digits of the
response code.
We’ll look at an example in the next slide.
If the response code begins with a 2, the
class is ‘successful’.
This means the request was successfully received,
understood, and accepted.
This is usually the class of response you
want from the server.
If the response code begins with a 3 the class
is redirection.
It means that further action is required to
be taken in order to complete the request.
For example, if the URI of the resource has
been changed, this response can tell the client
to request the new URI to get the resource.
If the response code begins with a 4, the
response class is client error.
This means there was some error in the request
and it can’t be fulfilled, such as requesting
a resource that doesn’t exist.
Let me show an example of that.
The client sends a GET request for the resource
at URI G, however that doesn’t exist on
the server.
So, it sends a response with response code
404, indicating the resource was not found.
I think many of you will recognize the 404
code, you’ve probably seen it on the Internet
before.
For example, I tried to access google.com/jeremysitlab,
and I got an error message.
Notice the response code, 404, indicating
that the resource was not found.
I got this error message because google.com/jeremysitlab
doesn’t exist, at least not until Google
acquires my company for the low price of a
billion dollars.
If anyone from Google’s watching, I’m
waiting for your offer.
Anyway, there is one more class of response.
If the response code begins with a 5 the class
is server error.
This means that the request was valid, but
the server was unable to fulfill it for some
reason.
For example, perhaps the server doesn’t
support the HTTP version of the request.
Here are some examples of each HTTP Response
class.
I’ll just give one or two examples for each.
For the informational class, you might see
code 102, which means processing.
This indicates that the server has received
the request and is processing it, but the
response is not yet available.
For the successful class you might see code
200, meaning OK.
This indicates that the request succeeded.
If this is in response to a GET request, for
example, the code 200 in the header will indicate
it was successful, and in the message body
the requested resource is sent.
Another example is 201, created, which indicates
that the request succeeded and a new resource
was created, for example in response to a
POST request.
Remember, POST is equivalent to the CRUD Create
operation.
In the redirection class, 301, moved permanently,
indicates that the requested resource has
been moved, and the server indicates its new
location to the client.
In the client error class we have 403, unauthorized.
This means that the client must authenticate
to get a response.
Note that when talking about AAA in the security
section of the course I told you about authentication
and authorization.
They are different things.
The official name for code 403 is unauthorized,
but maybe a better name would be unauthenticated,
because it indicates that the client needs
to authenticate.
Another example is 404, indicating that the
requested resource was not found.
Finally, an example of the server error class
is 500 internal server error, indicating that
the server encountered something unexpected
that it doesn’t know how to handle.
These are just a few examples, but there are
many more HTTP response codes.
If you’re curious about the others, check
out this page, once again from Mozilla.
You can also check out this page for a summary
of which Response codes you might see in response
to each HTTP verb.
Okay, that’s enough about HTTP.
Let’s finally take a look at some characteristics
of REST APIs.
REST stands for representational state transfer.
And REST APIs are also known as REST-based
APIs or RESTful APIs.
I usually just call them REST APIs.
Note that, as I’ve said before, REST isn’t
a specific API.
Rather, it describes a set of rules about
how the API should work.
It’s a framework for APIs.
The six constraints, or rules, of RESTful
architecture are a uniform interface, client-server
architecture, stateless operations, cacheable
(or non-cacheable) functions, a layered system,
and optionally something called code-on-demand.
If you’re curious to know more details about
all of these requirements check out this link,
but now I will explain just a few of them
that I think you should know for the CCNA.
The first is client-server.
REST APIs use a client-server architecture,
like HTTP.
The client uses API calls, basically that
means HTTP requests, to access resources on
the server, such as in the example below.
The separation between the client and server
means that they can both change and evolve
independently of each other, they aren’t
dependent on one another.
And when the client application changes or
the server application changes, the interface
between them must not break, it should continue
to function.
I think you’re fairly familiar with client-server
architecture already, it’s used in various
aspects of networking.
The next characteristic I want to cover is
that REST API exchanges are stateless.
I haven’t mentioned this term yet in the
course, but it’s an important one.
Statelessness means that each API exchange
is a separate event, independent of all past
exchanges between the client and server.
So, the server does not store information
about previous requests to determine how it
should respond to new requests.
Each new request is a totally separate event.
And if authentication is required, this means
that the client has to authenticate with the
server for each request it makes.
Although I haven’t used the term stateless,
or stateful, in the course yet, I have introduced
some stateful and stateless protocols.
For example, TCP is stateful.
It establishes connections and uses sequence
and acknowledgment numbers to keep track of
the exchanges between hosts.
UDP, on the other hand, is stateless.
No connection is set up and neither host keeps
track of any sequence or acknowledgment numbers.
The data is simply sent from host A to host
B, UDP doesn’t keep track of the state of
the exchange.
Now, I want to make a clarification.
Although REST APIs use HTTP, which uses TCP
as its Layer 4 protocol, HTTP and REST APIs
themselves aren’t stateful.
Keep in mind that the functions of the layers
of the OSI model are separate.
Just because a stateful Layer 4 protocol is
used doesn’t mean that the application layer
protocol must also be stateful.
The last rule of REST APIs that I’ll mention
is the cacheable OR non-cacheable requirement.
Let me explain.
REST APIs must support caching of data, basically
that means storing data for future use.
You might have heard this term before in reference
to web browsing.
For example, your computer might cache many
elements of a web page so that it doesn’t
have to retrieve the entire page every time
you visit it.
This improves performance for the client and
reduces the load on the server.
So, caching must be supported, but that doesn’t
mean that every resource has to be cacheable.
Not all resources have to be cacheable, but
cacheable resources must be declared as cacheable
when the server sends them to the client,
so the client will cache them for future use.
As I said before, if you’re curious about
the other aspects of REST APIs you can check
this link for restfulapi.net, but those three
are the key ones you should understand for
now.
And I’m repeating myself, but let me say
this again.
For applications to communicate over a network,
networking protocols must be used to facilitate
those communications.
And for REST APIs, HTTP is the most common
choice, or more often HTTPS, its encrypted
version is used.
That’s all we’ll cover for REST.
For the CCNA, Make sure you know the CRUD
actions, HTTP client request verbs, HTTP server
response codes, and the basic characteristics
of REST APIs that we covered in this video.
Now let’s move on to try some simple REST
API calls using free resources provided by
Cisco DevNet.
So, what is Cisco DevNet?
I’ll let them describe it themselves.
Cisco DevNet is Cisco’s developer program
to help developers and IT professionals who
want to write applications and develop integrations
with Cisco products, platforms, and APIs.
There’s the magic word, API.
Basically, DevNet offers lots of free resources
such as courses, tutorials, labs, sandboxes,
documentation, etc. to learn about automation
and develop your skills.
It really is a great resource and it keeps
getting better.
Note that there is also a DevNet certification
track that you can pursue if you’re interested
in network automation.
If that’s the case for you, perhaps consider
the DevNet associate cert after you get your
CCNA.
Today we will use their Cisco DNA Center Sandbox
to send a REST API call using Postman.
DNA Center is one of Cisco’s SDN controllers,
and we’ll cover it in the next video when
we go more in depth regarding SDN.
DevNet has various always-on sandboxes, which
are devices you are free to access at any
time and look around to get familiar with
them.
In this case we’ll use their always-on DNA
Center sandbox.
And Postman, which we’ll use to send the
API calls, is a platform for building and
using APIs.
It’s also a great learning tool.
So, to start I want you to make an account
on DevNet, developer.cisco.com, and also make
an account on postman.com and download the
desktop app.
You can use it directly in your browser too,
but I like to use the desktop app.
For this demonstration we will simply follow
this short tutorial on DevNet.
Go to this link or just do a google search
for ‘devnet dna center getting started’,
it should be the top result.
Note that you don’t have to follow along,
you can just watch me do it, but I do recommend
that you try it out yourself.
But even if you’re just following what I’m
doing, make sure you read the tutorial on
DevNet too because it will explain the reason
for each of the steps.
I’ll just show you them.
So, I’ve installed the Postman desktop app
and opened it.
From the home screen, click on workspaces
and and select My Workspace.
If you don’t have a workspace you can create
one by clicking where it says ‘create workspace’.
Now I’m in my workspace.
Next you should click New here.
That will open this window, where you can
select what you want to create.
For example, you can create a new API, documentation
for an API, a mock server to test APIs, etc.
In this case, we want to create an HTTP request
which we will send to DevNet’s DNA center
server.
After clicking on HTTP request, we can now
specify what kind of HTTP request we want
to send to DNA center’s REST API.
As explained in the DevNet tutorial, first
we have to generate an authorization token
which we will use for our second HTTP request.
First, set the HTTP verb to POST, it is GET
by default.
Then we have to specify the URL.
Just a quick note, the DevNet tutorial uses
the term URL, Uniform Resource Locator, but
I used the term URI, Uniform Resource Identifier,
earlier in the video.
Basically, a URL is just a type of URI.
You can google ‘URI vs URL’ for more info.
So, if we send a POST request to this URL,
an authorization token will be generated.
However we have to specify a username and
password for that to happen.
To do that, click on authorization here, and
then select Basic Auth.
That will open this menu, where you should
enter these credentials.
Username devnetuser, password Cisco123! with
a capital C and an exclamation point at the
end.
Okay, the POST is ready so now we can click
send to send the POST request to DNA center’s
API.
If the POST is successful you will get a response
with code 200, OK.
The body of the response message will include
your authorization token in JSON key-value
format.
Make sure to copy the value of the token.
You don’t have to copy the quotation marks
around the string, just the part I’ve highlighted.
Okay, now we’re ready to send the second
API call, which will retrieve a device inventory
from the DNA center controller.
First, change the HTTP verb to GET.
We will also send this request to a different
URL, as written in the tutorial.
And the next step is to add an additional
HTTP header with our authentication token.
To do that, click on ‘headers’ here, enter
‘X-Auth-Token’ for the key, and in the
value field paste the authorization key you
got from DNA center with the previous API
call.
Okay, now we’re ready for the second API
call, click on send to send the GET request.
If the GET is successful, you will once again
get a response with a 200 OK code.
And in the body we get the requested information,
JSON-formatted data listing the inventory
of devices managed by the DNA center controller.
The output here is quite long, but let me
show output for one of the devices.
Here is that output.
You should be familiar with the format, as
I mentioned it’s JSON.
So, by looking at this output we can learn
about this device that is managed by the DNA
center controller.
For example, the device family is listed as
switches or hubs.
Since hubs aren’t really used anymore, it’s
safe to say that this is a switch.
The role is access, so it’s an access layer
switch.
The hostname is leaf1.abc.com.
Leaf1, perhaps that means this is a leaf switch
in a spine-leaf architecture.
Here’s the platform ID, C9300-24U.
This is the device model, Catalyst 9300.
Here’s a picture of a C9300, by the way.
We can also get info like the uptime, how
much time has passed since the device booted
up.
So, that was a quick look at some basic REST
API calls to Cisco DNA Center using Postman.
We retrieved data in a machine-readable format,
JSON, so we can write applications that gather
data like this, interact with it, tell DNA
center to change it, etc.
We’ve barely scratched the surface, but
I hope you’re starting to see the utility
of APIs.
Here’s what we covered in this video.
We briefly reviewed what an API is, and then
looked at CRUD operations and their equivalent
HTTP verbs.
Then we looked at the basic characteristics
of REST APIs, and finally tried a few REST
API Calls to DNA Center using a Cisco DevNet
tutorial.
As I mentioned earlier, make sure you know
the CRUD actions, HTTP client request verbs,
HTTP server response codes, and the basic
characteristics of REST APIs that I covered
in this video.
I also gave various links to different resources
throughout the video that I recommend reading,
although they will go in much more depth than
is required.
But check them out if you want a greater understanding.
And make sure to watch until the end of the
quiz for a bonus practice question from Boson
Software’s ExSim, the best practice exams
for the CCNA.
Okay, let’s go to quiz question 1.
What HTTP response code would you expect to
receive if you tried to GET a resource that
doesn’t exist on the server?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, 404.
This code means Not Found.
If the requested resource does not exist on
the server, you can expect this response code.
Okay, let’s go to question 2.
Which of the following is NOT a constraint
of RESTful architecture?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is C, stateful.
REST APIs are stateless, meaning that each
individual client request is a unique event,
not dependent on any previous requests.
In addition to these five constraints, there
is an optional one called ‘code on demand’,
which basically extends client functionality
by allowing them to download and execute code
from servers.
Okay, let’s go to question 3.
Which category of HTTP response would you
expect in response to a successful request?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, you should expect a
response code beginning with 2.
This indicates a successful request, for example
with the 200 OK response code or the 201 Created
response code.
Okay, let’s go to question 4.
HTTP verbs PUT and PATCH are equivalent to
what CRUD operation?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is C, U, which stands for
update.
Note that you might also see PUT categorized
as a Create action, because it can be used
to create new variables, but usually it’s
used as an Update function.
Okay, let’s go to question 5.
Which of the following would you expect to
find as the scheme of a URI?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is A, HTTPS.
The scheme of a URI identifies the protocol
you are using, typically HTTP or HTTPS for
web services and REST APIs.
Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
Now let’s take a look at a bonus question
in Boson Software’s ExSim for CCNA.

######################################################################
# VIDEO 122: REST API Authentication | CCNA 200-301 Day 61 (part 2)
# Domain: 6-Automation
######################################################################

Hi from Tokyo Japan, and welcome to Jeremy’s 
IT Lab. In this video we’re going to cover REST  
API authentication. We’ve already covered the 
basics of REST APIs, but Cisco recently added  
authentication to the list of things you need 
to know about REST for the CCNA exam. APIs give  
access to an application and its data, so security 
should always be a major concern when designing  
and using APIs. In this video, we’ll examine 
some common methods of REST API authentication.
But before we get started, let me take a minute 
to shill my books, Acing the CCNA Exam volumes  
1 and 2. These books are up to date, covering 
everything you need for the latest version of  
the exam. REST API authentication, for example, 
is covered in chapter 23 of volume 2. I highly  
recommend using books in combination with 
a video course, and if you want my books,  
you can get them at the links on the screen 
now, or on Amazon. Now let’s get started.
So, what are we going to cover in this 
video? First, I’ll introduce the concept  
of REST API authentication in general, 
including why it’s so important. Then,  
for the rest of the video, we’ll cover 
four common types of REST authentication:  
basic authentication, bearer authentication, 
API key authentication, and finally OAuth2.0.  
We’ll outline how each of these methods works, 
and their advantages and disadvantages. So,  
that’s the plan for today. Now let’s 
learn about REST API authentication.
Hopefully you already know this definition 
from the security section of the course, but  
authentication is the process of validating the 
identity of a user or system to ensure legitimate  
access to resources. In the case of an API, the 
resource is the application and its data. In many  
cases, these resources should be protected. But 
without authentication, unauthorized users can  
send API requests, potentially accessing sensitive 
data or modifying the application. For example,  
here we have an application and some data. The API 
serves as an interface, allowing other apps to use  
the application or to access its data. Without 
authentication, if a malicious user sends an  
API call, also called an API request, the API will 
accept the request and provide the requested data.  
It’s worth noting that some APIs are intentionally 
open and don’t require authentication. These APIs  
typically provide publicly available data 
that doesn’t require security protection.
But for many APIs, that isn’t the case, 
and security is a major concern. When the  
malicious user makes the API call, the API 
should authenticate the user, asking “who  
are you?”. If the authentication process fails, 
the request is denied and the user doesn’t get  
access to the data. Implementing a reliable 
authentication method like this is essential  
for protecting applications and data that aren’t 
meant to be publicly available. And in addition to  
security concerns, many APIs track usage for 
analytics and billing purposes. For example,  
charging customers according to how much they use 
the API is a common practice. A great example is  
the ChatGPT API. Many AI applications use ChatGPT 
behind the scenes, and OpenAI charges businesses  
based on token usage. Basically, a token 
is a chunk of text, either input or output,  
and this means companies pay more as they send 
larger or more frequent requests to the API.
So, to summarize the previous slide, when working 
with REST APIs, authentication is crucial for  
verifying a client’s identity and securing access 
to resources. REST APIs use various types of  
authentication to achieve this, and we’ll cover 
some key ones in this video. These authentication  
types are also called authentication methods, 
or authentication schemes; those are the more  
technical terms. In this video, we’re going to 
cover four of them. The first method is basic  
authentication. As the name suggests, this is the 
simplest form of REST authentication. It sends a  
username and password in every request, encoded 
in Base64 format. Note that encoding is not the  
same as encryption; I’ll explain that in the next 
slide. Next, we have bearer authentication. This  
method uses a token, called a bearer token, 
included as an HTTP header in the request,  
to verify the client’s identity. This method 
is quite common in modern APIs; the client  
first obtains a token and then includes it in 
requests after that. Another common method is API  
key authentication. This requires a unique key, 
which is typically included as an HTTP header,  
like the bearer token. The API key acts as a 
unique identifier for the client, and is useful  
for tracking usage. Finally, we have OAuth 2.0. 
This is a more advanced and secure authentication  
framework that grants access using access tokens. 
OAuth 2.0 is widely used for delegated access  
and third-party authentication. I’ll break down 
what those terms mean when we cover OAuth 2.0 in  
detail. But if you’ve ever seen the “log in with 
google” option on a website, that’s OAuth2.0. Each  
of these methods has its own advantages and 
use cases. Now let’s look at them one by one.
We’ll start with basic authentication, which 
authenticates using a username and password in  
the HTTP headers of each API request. Before 
we dive deeper into basic authentication,  
let's first break down the structure of an HTTP 
message so you can see where authentication fits  
in. It begins with what’s called the start line, 
which includes three pieces of information: The  
HTTP method, which is POST in this case; the URL, 
which is api/v1/acl/rules; and the HTTP version,  
which is 2 in this case. The POST method 
is typically used for a create operation;  
think back to the CRUD operations (create, read, 
update, delete) we covered in the previous video  
on REST. So, this HTTP message is probably a 
request to create something on the server. Next,  
we have the headers. These provide metadata about 
the request, such as authentication details,  
content type, and information about the 
client making the request. Often there  
are several headers; there are four in this 
case. The headers are followed by a blank line,  
and then there is the message body, the actual 
contents of the message. This is the HTTP message,  
which would then be encapsulated in a TCP 
segment to be sent over the network. This  
message is using basic authentication; 
can you find it? It’s this line right  
here. It uses the “Authorization” header, 
but the real purpose is to authenticate the  
request. And then that authentication can 
be used to provide proper authorization.
Now that we’ve identified where the basic 
authentication occurs in the HTTP headers of  
the API request, let’s look a bit deeper at basic 
authentication. As I said, basic authentication  
includes a username and password in the HTTP 
headers. These credentials are encoded in Base64  
format, but not encrypted. That’s an important 
distinction. Base64 is an encoding scheme,  
which is simply a way of representing data. 
And unlike encryption, it is not secure and  
can be easily decoded. So, although I’ve been 
referring to HTTP, you really should be using  
HTTPS with your REST APIs for security. HTTPS 
is HTTP plus TLS, Transport Layer Security,  
which provides robust encryption and security. 
The username and password used for basic  
authentication are sent in the format username 
colon password, encoded in Base64. For example,  
username jeremy and password ccna would be sent 
as this string of characters. If you’re curious,  
you can visit this URL, base64decode.org, 
to encode and decode base64. So, let’s see  
how basic authentication works in action. 
On the right here we have the REST server,  
with an API allowing access to its data. And 
on the left we have a client app that wants  
to access the data. It sends an API call, 
including the “Authorization” header for  
authentication. Notice the password is encoded 
in Base64; that’s username jeremy and password  
ccna. The authentication succeeds, so the server 
grants the request and responds with the data. So,  
it’s that simple: a username and password are 
included with each request, and if they’re  
correct, authentication succeeds. Now that 
we’ve seen how basic authentication works,  
let’s consider the advantages and disadvantages. 
Honestly, the main advantage is that it’s simple  
and easy to implement, just a username and 
password. But since those credentials are sent  
in every request, attackers could steal them if 
the connection isn’t properly secured. But really,  
that applies for any authentication method: 
HTTPS is essential when communicating over  
the modern Internet; you shouldn’t use regular 
HTTP. But even if using HTTPS for encryption,  
relying solely on a username and password 
combination isn’t particularly secure. If an  
attacker gets access to the credentials, whether 
through social engineering or another attack,  
they get access to the API. So that’s basic 
authentication. Let’s move on to the next method.
Next, we’ll look at bearer authentication, 
which is a form of token-based authentication,  
and uses a token instead of a username 
and password. In bearer authentication,  
the client first obtains a token by authenticating 
with an authorization server, often just called an  
“auth server”. This is typically different from 
the server actually hosting the resource the  
client wants to access. Note that authenticating 
with the auth server can be done using basic  
authentication or another authentication method. 
This step is separate from the actual API request  
to the resource server. Then, after the client 
gets the token, for each API request, the client  
includes the token in the HTTP authorization 
header like we saw before. For example,  
it will look something like this: Authorization: 
Bearer, and then the token. Let’s see how it  
works. Notice I’m showing two servers now. One 
is the auth server, which generates the token.  
And then the resource server, which hosts whatever 
resource the client wants to access. So, to begin,  
the client requests a token from the auth server, 
and if successful, the server grants the client  
a token. Then, when the client sends an API call 
to the resource server, it includes the token in  
the call. And then the resource server responds, 
either with the requested resource, or a message  
indicating the server did what was requested. So, 
that’s basically how bearer authentication works.  
The term “bearer” means that anyone who possesses 
the token can use it. This means that, if an  
attacker steals the token, they can make requests, 
API calls, as if they were the legitimate user.  
This is clearly a security problem, so to 
mitigate against this, tokens usually expire  
after a set period of time. The expiration time 
depends on the API’s security needs. Some tokens  
expire in 15 minutes to reduce risk, while 
others last weeks or months for convenience,  
especially in low-security environments. Okay, 
let’s summarize by considering some advantages  
and disadvantages of bearer authentication. First 
off, it’s more secure than basic authentication,  
because there’s no need to transmit the same 
username and password for every single API  
call. The tokens that are used instead expire, so 
a stolen token will only be temporarily valid. But  
still, it’s worth mentioning as a disadvantage 
that, if the token is stolen, the attacker can  
still access the API until the token expires. And 
since tokens need to be refreshed periodically,  
it adds some extra complexity when implementing 
bearer authentication, compared to basic  
authentication. That’s not a problem for 
network engineers, but for the programmers  
who build these APIs it’s worth considering. 
And finally, just like basic authentication,  
it should only be used with HTTPS. If the token is 
sent in cleartext, no encryption, it simply isn’t  
secure; you need HTTPS when communicating over the 
modern internet. While bearer tokens are commonly  
used for user authentication in APIs, some APIs 
use a simpler method, which we’ll cover next.
Next up is API key authentication, which uses a 
static key issued by the API provider. The client  
uses this key in each API call for authentication. 
The main difference between a bearer token and a  
key is that, unlike bearer tokens, the API key 
is static. It doesn’t expire automatically,  
so it remains valid until revoked. API keys 
can be sent to the server in a few ways.  
The recommended way is to include the key in the 
HTTP Authorization header, as we saw in basic and  
bearer authentication. But you can also include 
the key in the URL, in the start line of the  
HTTP request, by adding a parameter to the URL. 
But this is not recommended for several reasons,  
one being that since URLs are often logged 
by web servers, proxies, and browsers,  
API keys included in URLs can be exposed in logs, 
making them vulnerable to attackers. And a third  
option is to send the API key as a cookie, which 
is sometimes used for browser-based APIs. But in  
any case, the recommended method is to include 
the key in the authorization header. Let’s  
see what it looks like; it’s quite simple. 
The client sends an API call to the server  
hosting the resource it wants to access. And the 
client includes the API key in the authorization  
header of the HTTP message. Assuming the key was 
valid, the server then sends its response. Okay,  
now that we’ve seen how it works, let’s consider 
a couple of advantages and disadvantages. One  
advantage is that it’s easier to implement than 
Bearer authentication. And API key authentication  
is good for tracking usage. The API provider can 
assign a unique key to each customer, and then  
easily track each customer’s usage by tracking 
the key used in each API call. Because of this,  
API keys are often used in cloud services and 
third-party APIs. If you’re wondering what a  
third-party API is, think of a developer that 
builds a chatbot app that uses ChatGPT. The end  
users are the first party. The developer creating 
the chatbot app is the second party. But instead  
of generating responses itself, the app calls 
OpenAI’s API to get responses from ChatGPT.  
Since OpenAI is external to both the users and 
the app developer, it’s the third party in this  
interaction. Hopefully that makes sense! Now let’s 
look at a couple of disadvantages. One problem is  
that, if stolen, the key grants full access until 
revoked. It doesn’t automatically expire. So,  
API keys must be rotated manually to maintain 
security, whereas the tokens used in bearer  
authentication expire automatically. Okay 
that’s all for API key authentication.
Finally, we move on to OAuth 2.0. It’s a secure 
authentication framework that is widely used in  
modern web applications. Its overall purpose is 
different from the other methods we’ve looked at,  
in that it provides access delegation, 
granting third-party applications limited  
access to resources on behalf of the resource’s 
owner. The main benefit is that there is no need  
to share the resource owner’s credentials with 
the third party. For example, when you use ‘Log  
in with Google’ on a website, the website 
never sees your Google password. Instead,  
Google confirms your identity and grants 
access only to approved information. Let’s  
look at some examples of OAuth2.0. The first is 
what I just mentioned, logging in with google.  
Many websites and apps offer the option to log 
in using your Google account. The third party  
website or app is granted access to some of your 
Google account’s information, without actually  
getting access to your account’s credentials. 
Connecting apps to social media accounts is  
another example. Many apps can be connected to 
Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, etc. OAuth 2.0  
lets these apps access your social media account 
for specific tasks, like posting on your behalf,  
without revealing your login credentials. 
Calendar integration is one more example.  
A third-party tool, like a scheduling app, can 
be given access to your Google calendar to check  
availability and schedule meetings. These are 
all common examples of OAuth2.0. Now let’s  
see how it actually works. There are four main 
parties involved. First is the resource owner,  
the account owner granting access to their data. 
Using the Google calendar integration example,  
this is the owner of the google account. Next 
is the client app, the third-party application  
requesting access to your Google data, like a 
scheduling tool accessing your calendar. Then  
there is the auth server. This server issues 
access tokens, granting limited access to your  
google account, after receiving user approval. 
In this example, this is Google’s OAuth service.  
Finally, there is the resource server, the 
server that hosts the protected resource. In  
this example, it’s the server hosting the Google 
calendar data that the client app wants to access.
Now let’s see OAuth2.0 in action. The overall 
process consists of six main steps. First,  
the client app requests authorization 
from the resource owner. In our example,  
this could be a scheduling app requesting 
access to your Google Calendar. Next,  
the resource owner—which is you, the account 
owner—grants authorization by logging into your  
Google account and giving permission for the 
scheduling app to access your calendar data.  
Once permission is granted, the client app 
exchanges this authorization grant for an  
access token from the auth server—which in this 
case, is Google’s OAuth service. The auth server  
then issues an access token to the client app. 
This token acts as a temporary key that allows  
the app to request resources on your behalf. Now 
that the client app has a token, it includes the  
token in an API request to the resource server, 
which hosts the actual data—in this case,  
your Google Calendar data. Finally, the resource 
server validates the access token and provides the  
requested resource back to the client app. If 
the token is valid and the app has the correct  
permissions, it will receive the data it needs. 
The key part of OAuth 2.0 is the access token  
issued in step 4. It functions like the tokens we 
saw in bearer authentication. It grants access to  
the specified resource within the allowed scope, 
for example read-only access. And just as in  
bearer authentication, access tokens expire after 
a short period, which helps improve security. But  
instead of requiring the user to log in again 
every single time the access token expires,  
OAuth 2.0 uses refresh tokens, granted by the auth 
server, which allow the client app to request a  
new access token without user interaction. This 
way, the app can maintain access over an extended  
period of time without constantly requiring the 
user to log in. So, that’s OAuth 2.0. It allows  
third-party apps to securely access a user’s 
data without exposing their credentials, and  
while allowing users to control what information 
is shared. That’s why OAuth 2.0 is so widely used  
in modern web applications. By the way, OAuth 
2.0 is defined in RFC 6749, which you can access  
from this link here, or just google search for 
RFC 6749. Diving into RFCs isn’t expected for  
the CCNA exam, but if you’re curious to learn 
more about OAuth 2.0, it’s worth checking out.
Alright, let’s wrap things up with a quick summary 
of what we covered in this video before we move on  
to the quiz. REST API authentication ensures that 
only authorized users or systems can access an  
API. Without it, anyone could send API requests, 
potentially exposing or modifying sensitive data.  
We looked at four types of REST API authentication 
methods. Basic Authentication uses a username and  
password encoded in Base64, but it’s not 
encrypted, so it must be used with HTTPS  
for security. Actually, that statement really 
applies to all of these authentication methods:  
in the modern internet, you should always use 
HTTPS, not regular HTTP. Bearer Authentication  
is a step up in security, using a token 
issued by an authorization server instead  
of sending a username and password in every 
request. Tokens expire after a short time,  
which increases security, but they can still 
be stolen if not protected with HTTPS. Next,  
API Key Authentication works similarly but uses a 
static key issued by the API provider. It’s good  
for tracking API usage, so it’s commonly used by 
cloud service providers and third-party APIs. It’s  
easier to implement than bearer authentication, 
but it’s considered less secure because stolen  
keys remain valid until manually revoked. 
They don’t automatically expire. Finally,  
OAuth 2.0 is a framework for access delegation, 
allowing third-party applications limited access  
to a user’s resources without sharing login 
credentials. It relies on access tokens that  
can be refreshed with a refresh token, 
allowing continued access without user  
reauthentication. OAuth 2.0 involves four 
key parties: the resource owner, for example,  
the owner of the Google account. The client 
app, the app that requests access to the  
account’s resources. The authorization server, 
which grants the client app a token to provide  
limited access to the requested resource. And 
finally, the resource server; the server that  
hosts the protected resource: for example, the 
Google account’s information. Okay, that’s what  
we covered in the video. Now let’s move on 
to a quick quiz to test your understanding.
Here’s quiz question 1. Which of the following 
REST authentication methods involve an Auth  
server issuing tokens? Select two. Pause 
the video now to think about your answers.
Okay, the answers are A and B, OAuth 2.0 and 
bearer authentication. Here’s the diagram I  
showed for OAuth 2.0, and here’s the diagram 
for bearer authentication. Basic authentication  
doesn’t involve an auth server; it just uses 
simple username and password authentication. And  
neither does API key authentication, which uses a 
static key. Okay, let’s go to the next question.
Here’s question 2. Which of the 
following best describes how  
OAuth 2.0 improves security? Pause the 
video now to think about your answer.
Okay, the answer is B, it allows third-party 
apps to access resources without exposing  
user credentials. Here’s the diagram once again. 
Instead of using the resource owner’s credentials  
for authentication, the client app receives an 
access token from the auth server in step 4,  
which allows it to authenticate 
with the resource server in step 5,  
and then access the resource. Okay, 
let’s go to the next question.
Here’s question 3. Which of the 
following statements are true?  
Select three. Pause the video 
now to think about your answers.
Okay, the answers are B, C, and E. B is 
correct because bearer authentication  
does require a token; the term “bearer” refers to 
this bearer token. C is correct because OAuth 2.0  
enables access delegation, as we covered in the 
previous quiz question. And E is correct because,  
instead of requiring user reauthentication 
every time the access token expires,  
a refresh token can be used to automatically 
obtain a new access token. A is incorrect  
because API keys do not expire automatically; 
for this reason, they are considered less  
secure than tokens. D is incorrect because basic 
authentication doesn’t use encryption. Instead,  
the username and password are encoded in 
Base64 format, which is easily reversible.  
Finally, F is incorrect because API keys should 
not be included in URLs. Instead, they should be  
included in the HTTP Authorization header, as this 
is more secure. Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
And that’s all for this video on REST API 
authentication. We covered four kinds:  
basic authentication, bearer authentication, 
API key authentication, and OAuth 2.0. There  
are other REST authentication methods out 
there, but these are the four I recommend  
knowing for the CCNA exam. I hope you found 
this video helpful. Thanks for watching.

######################################################################
# VIDEO 123: Free CCNA | Software-Defined Networking | Day 62 | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
# Domain: 6-Automation
######################################################################

Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
In this video we will look at software-defined
networking.
In the first video of this network automation
series we already covered the fundamentals
such as centralizing the control plane in
an SDN controller, northbound and southbound
APIs, etc.
So, in this video we’ll take a more in-depth
look at one of Cisco’s SDN offerings, SD-Access,
Software-Defined Access.
We’ll cover exam topics 6.3 and 6.4.
You’ll learn new terms like overlay, underlay,
and fabric which are essential concepts in
SDN that we haven’t covered yet.
Here’s what we’ll cover in this video.
First I’ll briefly review the points about
SDN that you’ll need to remember for this
video.
Then I’ll introduce Cisco’s SD-Access,
including important concepts like underlay,
overlay, and fabric.
I’ll also introduce Cisco’s DNA Center
management platform, which is an essential
part of SD-Access, and compare it to traditional
network management.
Make sure to watch until the end of the video
for a bonus practice question from Boson Software’s
ExSim, the best practice exams for the CCNA.
Let’s reviews some points about SDN.
SDN is an approach to networking that centralizes
the control plane into an application called
a controller.
Traditional control planes use a distributed
architecture, which means that every network
device has its own control plane.
The control planes of each network device
use protocols like OSPF to communicate with
each other and share routing information,
each device has its own ACLs and security
rules, etc.
That’s a distributed control plane.
An SDN controller centralizes control plane
functions like calculating routes.
Network devices no longer use OSPF to share
information with each other, instead they
share information with the controller, which
takes that information and calculates routes
for the entire network.
Now, depending on the SDN solution the entire
control plane might be centralized in the
SDN controller, or perhaps only part of the
control plane is centralized, leaving some
functions on the individual network devices.
The controller can interact programmatically
with the network devices using APIs.
Specifically it uses what we call the southbound
interface to do that.
Then there is also the northbound interface,
which is what allows us to interact with the
controller using our scripts and applications.
Okay, those are the fundamental points of
SDN that I wanted to review.
And here’s one more look at the SDN architecture
we covered in the first video of this automation
section.
The applications are on top, the controller
in the middle, and the network devices on
the bottom.
Actually, these three ‘layers’ of the
architecture have names.
On top there is the application layer.
This layer contains scripts and applications
that tell the SDN controller what network
behaviors are desired.
Note that this isn’t the application layer
of the OSI model, this is a totally different
concept.
We’re not talking about the OSI model here.
Anyway, next is the control layer.
This contains the SDN controller that receives
and processes instructions from the application
layer.
Although this is a separate concept from the
‘control plane’, this layer is also what
contains the centralized control plane of
the network.
And finally there is the infrastructure layer,
which contains the actual devices that are
responsible for forwarding messages across
the network.
I didn’t mention these layers in earlier
videos, so take the time to learn them now.
The application layer contains apps and scripts
for instructing the SDN controller, the control
layer contains the SDN controller, and the
infrastructure layer contains the network
devices.
Okay, so I’ve told you the basics of what
SDN is and its purpose, but we still haven’t
looked at a specific example of SDN.
So, let’s take a look at one, Cisco Software-Defined
Access.
Cisco SD-Access is Cisco’s SDN solution
for automating campus LANs.
So, office wired and wireless LANs, for example.
Cisco has other SDN solutions, for example
ACI, Application Centric Infrastructure, is
their SDN solution for automating data center
networks.
Remember when I explained spine-leaf architecture
earlier in the course?
That is used extensively in ACI data center
networks.
Cisco also has SD-WAN, their SDN solution
for automating WANs.
But for now let’s look at SD-Access.
Cisco DNA, Digital Network Architecture, Center
is the controller at the center of SD-Access.
In the previous video about REST APIs we sent
a REST API call to DNA Center, so perhaps
you remember that name.
Okay, let’s look at the basic SD-Access
architecture.
At the center, in the control layer, we have
DNA Center.
And then under it we have the network devices
in our campus LAN in the infrastructure layer.
These devices form the fabric of SD-Access,
and I’ll explain that term in the next slide.
In the application layer we have our scripts
and apps that interact with DNA center.
These could be tools we develop, third-party
tools, or tools directly from Cisco.
DNA Center itself also has a GUI that we can
use to control it.
Okay, so that’s the basic architecture of
Cisco’s SD Access.
Notice how it fits perfectly into the SDN
Application layer, Control layer, Infrastructure
layer model.
Next let’s look at that term ‘fabric’.
To understand the fabric, you need to understand
two other terms.
First, the underlay is the underlying physical
network of devices and connections, wired
and wireless, which provide IP connectivity,
for example with a routing protocol like IS-IS.
Usually I’d use OSPF as an example, since
it’s the most common interior gateway routing
protocol, but soon you’ll see why I chose
IS-IS for this example.
Basically the underlay is a bunch of multilayer
switches and their connections.
Then the overlay is the virtual network built
on top of the physical underlay network.
For example, SD-Access uses a protocol called
VXLAN, virtual extensible LAN, to build tunnels.
And fabric is the term we use to refer to
the combination of the overlay and underlay,
the physical and virtual network as a whole.
For example, this is the underlay network.
The physical multilayer switches and their
connections form the underlay, and they are
perhaps running IS-IS to share routing information
and provide connectivity throughout the network.
Then the overlay network consists of VXLAN
tunnels, for example between these two switches.
When hosts in the LAN communicate with each
other, their traffic is sent over the VXLAN
tunnels.
That’s the overlay network.
And the fabric refers to the physical and
virtual network as a whole, overlay plus underlay.
Both are necessary to make SD-Access work.
Okay, now let me give a little more detail
about both the underlay and overlay.
So, let’s talk about the underlay.
The underlay’s purpose is to support the
VXLAN tunnels of the overlay.
To make a virtual network of tunnels, the
devices first need to be connected and able
to reach other of course, so the underlay
is very important.
There are three different roles for switches
in SD-Access.
Those are edge node, these are switches that
connect to end hosts, like a traditional access
layer switch.
Then there are border nodes, which connect
to devices outside of the SD-Access domain,
for example connecting to a WAN router.
And finally there are control nodes, which
use a protocol called LISP, Locator ID Separation
Protocol, to perform various control plane
functions.
I think LISP is far beyond what you need to
know for the CCNA, so just know that it is
used for the control plane of SD-Access.
Note that you can add SD-Access on top of
an existing network if your network hardware
and software supports it.
This is called a brownfield deployment, when
you add it on to an already existing network.
If you’re curious which hardware supports
it, you can google ‘Cisco SD-Access compatibility
matrix’, but you don’t have to know the
specific devices for the CCNA.
And also note that in this case DNA center
won’t configure the underlay, because this
could be a major risk to the current working
production network.
Ideally you will be using a greenfield deployment,
which is a totally new network built for the
purpose of SD-Access.
In this case DNA center will configure the
devices for the optimal SD-access underlay.
For example, all switches are layer 3 and
use IS-IS as their routing protocol.
That’s why I mentioned IS-IS in the example
earlier.
Additionally all links between switches are
routed ports, so STP is not needed to avoid
Layer 2 loops.
And edge nodes, so access switches, act as
the default gateway of end hosts.
This is known as a routed access layer, we’ve
brought layer 3 all the way down to the access
switches that end hosts connect to.
Let me demonstrate with a diagram.
Here’s a traditional LAN.
Notice that STP is used to avoid layer 2 loops,
and an FHRP, for example HSRP, is used by
the distribution layer switches to provide
a redundant default gateway for the end hosts.
So, to send traffic out of their local network,
they will send it to the virtual IP provided
by the FHRP, 192.168.1.1.
In an SD-access underlay, however, all connections
between switches are Layer 3 and IS-IS is
used to exchange routing information.
Note that STP is no longer needed, and an
FHRP isn’t needed either.
Instead, the access layer switches are the
default gateways of the end hosts.
Now we have a routed access layer.
Now let me briefly introduce a few aspects
of the SD-Access overlay.
First, LISP provides the control plane of
SD-Access.
A list of mappings of EIDs to RLOCs is kept.
Let me explain those terms.
EIDs, endpoint identifiers, identify end hosts
connected to edge switches, and RLOCs, routing
locators, identify the edge switch which can
be used to reach the end host.
Of course, there is a lot more detail to cover
about LISP, but I think with just that you
can see how it differs from the traditional
control plane.
Instead of a traditional routing table to
locate destination hosts, a DNS-like system
of mappings is used.
Cisco TrustSec, CTS, provides policy control
such as QoS and security policy.
Just remember that name, Cisco TrustSec, you
don’t have to know about its functionality.
And finally VXLAN provides the data plane
of SD-Access, the tunnels that are used to
actually forward traffic in the data plane.
Let’s look at how VXLAN tunnels work with
LISP.
Notice that SW3 is a control node, so it is
important for the function of LISP.
PC2 is connected to SW2, and it tells the
control node that PC2 is reachable via SW2.
So, SW3 creates that mapping.
Now PC1 wants to send traffic to PC2, so it
sends it to the default gateway, SW1.
SW1 asks SW3, how can I reach PC2?
And SW3 informs it that PC2 is reachable via
SW2.
So, the message from PC1 is forwarded over
a VXLAN tunnel between SW1 and SW2.
Okay, that’s all I’ll say about the overlay
for now.
VXLAN does more than just create tunnels,
it provides a lot of features to SD-Access
which I won’t get into in this video.
Just know the difference between fabric, overlay,
and underlay, and know some basics of SD-Access
like edge node, border node, and control node,
LISP, VXLAN, and Cisco TrustSec.
Now let’s look a bit more at DNA Center.
DNA Center itself has two main roles.
First, it is the SDN controller used in SD-Access,
as I mentioned earlier.
Additionally it can be a network manager in
a traditional network that isn’t using SD-Access.
In that case, although it doesn’t provide
SD-Access functions, it still acts as a central
point to monitor, analyze, and configure the
network.
Although I will mention both purposes, for
this lecture we’re focusing on the SD-Access
application.
Note that DNA Center is a software application
installed on Cisco UCS server hardware.
I mentioned Cisco UCS in the virtualization
lecture of this course.
DNA Center has a REST API, as you already
know, which can be used to interact with it.
And its southbound interface supports protocols
such as NETCONF and RESTCONF, as well as traditional
protocols Telnet, SSH, and SNMP to control
and monitor devices.
DNA Center enables something called intent-based
networking, IBN, yet another buzzword.
Basically, the goal is to allow the engineer
to communicate their intent for network behavior
to DNA Center, and then DNA Center will take
care of the details of the actual configurations
and policies on the devices.
It simplifies the process, and allows engineers
to spend time on more important things than
analyzing and configuring policies on devices
one at a time.
Here’s one example.
Traditional security policies using ACLs can
become very cumbersome.
For example, ACLs can have thousands of entries,
and the intent of entries is easily forgotten
with time and as engineers leave and new engineers
take over.
Looking at another engineer’s configurations
and trying to figure out the intent is often
not an easy task.
And configuring and applying ACLs correctly
across a network is cumbersome and leaves
room for error.
DNA Center, on the other hand, allows the
engineer to specify the intent of the policy,
for example this group of users can’t communicate
with this group, or this group can access
this server but not that server, etc, and
DNA Center will take care of the exact details
of implementing the policy.
This is what configuring policies on DNA Center
looks like.
Notice on the left here we have source groups.
Of course, you’d have to define the groups
first, which users belong in which groups.
And here we have those same groups as destination.
Up here we have the legend for the colors
in the policy grid.
Note that the entire grid is white now, so
default.
However, let’s say any traffic sourced from
users in the developers group and destined
for the Test_Servers group should be permitted.
Now, what about traffic sourced from the guest
group?
They shouldn’t be able to access our servers,
so we’ll make that red.
How about users in the employees group?
Maybe that depends on various factors, we
can’t just permit or deny all traffic, so
we would want to make a custom policy for
that.
We can go ahead and define policies like this,
it’s a very simple and straightforward way
of creating and applying policies across the
entire SD-Access fabric.
No need to configure policies on devices one
at a time.
I’m not showing the whole process here of
course, but one thing to note is that the
engineer can write an explanation for each
policy made, making it much easier to understand
the purpose of policies later.
Okay, now let’s take a look at some of the
other features of DNA Center.
In the menu on the left side you can see there
are various sections, and I’ve opened the
design section.
Here we can build the network hierarchy, manage
IP addresses and subnets, configure DHCP servers,
DNS servers, etc, among other things.
Here, for example, I’m looking at one site,
SJC-20, on a map.
You can map your enterprise’s sites all
over the world and create hierarchies based
on country, etc.
In the policy menu you can configure policies
like the example I showed you earlier.
You tell DNA Center how the network devices
should behave, and DNA Center will change
that into configurations on the devices in
the network.
For example, here’s that group-based access
control page again.
A simple and logical way to configure network
policies.
In the provision menu we can manage our device
inventory and add new devices.
Other services are available as well, as you
can see in the menu.
Here’s the inventory page.
In the side bar you can see that there are
3 unassigned devices under global.
By default, when you add devices to DNA Center
they will be under the global site, until
you assign them to a specific site.
You can see their status of ‘managed’
here, this means they are under control of
DNA Center, they are not independent devices.
This is also the default setting when you
register a device in DNA Center.
Here you can see the compliance status of
the devices.
The top device is compliant with our policies,
but the bottom two aren’t.
I clicked on one of the non-compliant devices,
and you can see why it is labeled as non-compliant.
The software image, the version of IOS, is
not up to date.
The version should be 17.03.03, but currently
it is 16.11.1c.
We can use DNA Center to update that later
if we want.
And here you can see that it is also non-compliant
with some security advisories.
Anyway moving on, in the assurance section
of the menu you can monitor the status of
the network.
You can make sure the devices are all up and
running without issues.
For example, here I can see which devices
in the network are considered ‘healthy’
by DNA Center.
3 of 4 devices are in good health, and 1 of
them simply has no health data.
Okay, that’s all we’ll look at for now,
but if you want to look around DNA Center
yourself you can check out the DevNet sandbox
at sandboxdnac.cisco.com, and you can see
the username and password here.
I highly recommend checking it out and looking
around at what DNA Center has to offer.
Okay, that was a quick look at DNA Center,
but to be honest you don’t have to be familiar
with all of the functions of DNA Center for
the CCNA.
Basically, just understand its role as a network
controller in SD-Access architecture, and
also understand that it can be a network management
platform in a traditional network.
However, the exam topics do state that you
should be able to compare DNA Center-enabled
device management with traditional device
management.
Actually, I’ve covered most of these points
already when I first introduced network automation,
but let’s review to make sure.
First, let’s review some characteristics
of traditional network management.
Devices are configured one-by-one via SSH
or console connection.
This is what we’ve been doing throughout
the labs in this course.
Devices are manually configured via console
connection before being deployed.
This means when deploying a new device to
a network.
You first have to manually set it up before
connecting it to the network.
Configurations and policies are managed per-device,
in a distributed manner.
There is no central management.
New network deployments take a long time due
to the manual labor required.
Setting up dozens of new devices manually
takes a lot of time, and also errors and failures
are more likely due to increased manual effort.
Now, I don’t want to make it seem like traditional
network management is bad, but you should
be aware of these potential downsides.
Now some characteristics of DNA Center-based
network management.
Devices are centrally managed and monitored
from the DNA Center GUI or other applications
using its REST API.
In this video I showed you the DNA Center
GUI, but using the REST API other applications
can be used to interact with DNA Center too.
With DNA Center, the administrator communicates
their intended network behavior to DNA Center,
which changes those intentions into configurations
on the managed network devices.
Configurations and policies are centrally
managed, they’re all stored and managed
on DNA Center.
Software versions are also centrally managed.
DNA Center can monitor cloud servers for new
versions and then update the managed devices
when needed.
In this video you saw an example of DNA Center
showing us an alert for a device with an old
software version.
Finally, with DNA Center new network deployments
are much quicker.
New devices can automatically receive their
configurations from DNA Center without manual
configuration.
Not only is this faster, human error is reduced
too, which is a huge bonus.
Okay, that’s all I’ll say about this.
Most of these points we have already covered,
but make sure you’re aware of them because
it is mentioned on the exam topics.
Okay, let’s review what we covered.
We first reviewed SDN, and I newly introduced
the terms application layer, control layer,
and infrastructure layer.
Then, as an example of SDN, I introduced some
concepts of Cisco SD-Access.
The main takeaways from this section are the
concepts of underlay, overlay, and fabric.
Make sure you understand those concepts.
Then I showed you some functions of Cisco
DNA Center, and compared network management
with DNA Center to traditional network management.
Remember, DNA Center is an SDN controller
in SD-Access architecture, but it can also
be used as a general network management tool
even in networks that don’t use SD-Access.
Make sure to watch until the end of the quiz
for a bonus practice question from Boson Software’s
ExSim, the best practice exams for the CCNA.
Okay, let’s go to quiz question 1.
Which of the following terms describes the
network of devices and physical connections?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is A, underlay.
The underlay refers to the underlying physical
network, and then the virtual overlay network
is built on top of it.
The combination of underlay and overlay is
called the fabric.
Okay, let’s go to question 2.
In which of the following layers would you
expect to find scripts that interact with
the controller?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, application.
In SDN architecture, the application layer
includes apps and scripts that can be used
to interact with the controller, which is
in the control layer.
Finally the bottom layer is the infrastructure
layer, which includes the network devices.
Okay, let’s go to question 3.
Which of the following is a characteristic
of an optimal SD-Access underlay network as
configured by DNA-Center?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, all links between switches
are layer 3.
This means that spanning tree is not needed,
and no links will have to be disabled because
there is no risk of layer 2 loops.
Okay, let’s go to question 4.
Which protocol is used to create virtual tunnels
in the SD-Access overlay?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is D, VXLAN.
It is used to create virtual tunnels in the
overlay network.
And although we didn’t cover any details
at all, the ‘extensible’ in the name ‘virtual
extensible LAN’ is very important.
It means that VXLAN supports many different
features which are used by SD-Access.
Okay, let’s go to question 5.
Which of the following are valid switch roles
in Cisco SD-Access?
(select three) Pause the video now to select
the best answers.
Okay, the answers areA, C, and D. Control,
border, and edge nodes.
These are the three different switch roles
in Cisco SD-Access, and there is no such thing
as a management node.
Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
Now let’s take a look at a bonus question 
in Boson Software’s ExSim for CCNA.

######################################################################
# VIDEO 124: Free CCNA | Ansible, Puppet, & Chef | Day 63 (part 1) | CCNA 200-301 Complete Course
# Domain: 6-Automation
######################################################################

Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
In this video we will cover configuration
management tools Ansible, Puppet, and Chef.
They are exam topic 6.6, which says you must
be able to recognize the capabilities of configuration
management mechanisms.
So, just like with the other automation topics
on the CCNA, you don’t have to actually
be able to use these tools yet, but Cisco
expects you to have a basic understanding
of their purpose and capabilities.
Here’s what we’ll cover in this video.
First I’ll introduce configuration management
tools, what they are and why we use them.
Then I’ll introduce some of the characteristics
of the configuration management tools Ansible,
Puppet, and Chef.
So far I’ve introduced various automation
tools, and I just want to say that these are
just tools.
They are suitable for some jobs, and not suitable
for others.
Depending on the company you work for and
its size, they might use a lot of different
automation tools, or just a few of them, or
none at all.
Configuration management tools like these
three can be useful in any network, but especially
in medium to large networks with hundreds
or even thousands of devices.
And make sure to watch until the end of the
video for a bonus practice question from Boson
Software’s ExSim, the best practice exams
for the CCNA.
To understand one reason why configuration
management tools are useful, let me explain
the concept of configuration drift.
Configuration drift is when individual changes
made over time cause a device’s configuration
to deviate from the standard and correct configurations
as defined by the company.
This is not a good thing, and should be avoided
wherever possible.
I mentioned this earlier in the course, but
each device in a network typically doesn’t
have a totally unique configuration.
Although each device will have unique parts
of its configuration, for example IP addresses
and its host name, most of a device’s configuration
is usually defined in standard templates designed
by the network architects or engineers of
the company.
For example, you can expect all of your routers
to have the same SNMP configurations, the
same Syslog configurations, the same AAA configurations
for logging in, one or two WAN interfaces,
one or two LAN interfaces, etc.
Those all follow standard templates, with
just a few unique configurations for each
device.
But, as individual engineers make changes
to devices, for example to troubleshoot and
fix network issues, test configurations, etc,
the configuration of a device can drift away
from the standard.
Often records of these individual changes
and their reasons aren’t kept, and this
can lead to issues in the future.
For example, it might be hard to tell if a
certain configuration is necessary when looking
at it a few years later.
The configuration management tools we’ll
look at today can help with this, but even
without automation tools like Ansible, it
is best to have standard configuration management
practices.
For example, something I did in the past was
when a change is made, save the config as
a text file and place it in a shared folder.
In my case, a standard file naming system
hostname_year month day was used.
Notice in the screenshot here we have three
different versions of R1’s config from three
different dates, and three versions of R2’s
config as well.
This helps keep track of previous versions
of the config and see when changes were made.
However there are flaws to this system, as
an engineer might simply forget to place the
new config in the folder after making changes.
In that case, which one should be considered
the correct config?
And even if the configurations are properly
saved in a folder like this, it doesn’t
guarantee that the configurations actually
match the standard.
It just helps us keep track of different versions
of the config.
Plus, a manual approach is not very scalable
in networks with hundreds of devices.
So, configuration management tools can of
course help us with the issues I just mentioned
like preventing configuration drift, but they
can also assist us in configuration provisioning.
Configuration provisioning refers to how configuration
changes are applied to devices.
This includes configuring new devices too,
so not just making changes to current devices.
As you know, traditionally configuration provisioning
is done by connecting to devices one-by-one
via SSH, or console as well of course.
But this is not practical in large networks.
It simply doesn’t scale well in networks
with hundreds or thousands of devices.
Configuration management tools like Ansible,
Puppet, and Chef allow us to make changes
to devices on a mass scale with a fraction
of the time and effort.
Two essential components that you’ll find
in all of these tools are templates and variables.
Here’s an example of a template, where values
aren’t given for things like the hostname,
IP address, mask, OSPF process ID, and area.
Instead, we use a separate file specifying
the variables for a specific device, R1 in
this case.
Given a template and the appropriate variables,
a config is generated and sent to the device.
Of course, this is just a small snippet of
a configuration, but I think you can see how
easy it would be to generate the configuration
of many devices at once.
All devices can share the template, and we
just need to specify some variables like hostnames,
IP addresses, etc.
Exactly how these templates and variables
are managed is different depending on the
tool, but they all use a system like this.
Okay now let me introduce configuration management
tools.
These are network automation tools that facilitate
the centralized control of large numbers of
network devices.
They can be useful in networks of any size,
but typically they’re used in larger networks.
The options you need to be aware of for the
CCNA are Ansible, Puppet, and Chef.
When it comes to managing network devices,
that’s also the order of their popularity.
Ansible first, Puppet second, and Chef third.
However, these tools weren’t originally
developed for the management of network devices.
They were originally developed after the rise
of VMs, to enable server system admins to
automate the process of creating, configuring,
and removing VMs.
But these days they are also widely used to
manage network devices, especially Ansible.
They can be used to perform tasks such as
generate configurations for new devices on
a large scale.
Using templates it’s very simple to generate
a new configuration for a new device, it’s
just a bit of copy and paste.
They can be used to perform configuration
changes on devices.
It can be all devices in your network, or
a certain subset of devices, or just one device.
You tell Ansible or Puppet or Chef which changes
you want to make on which devices, and it
does the rest of the work for you.
These tools can also be used to check device
configurations for compliance with defined
standards.
If a device’s configuration doesn’t match
the standard, an alert could be sent out,
for example.
Then you can investigate that issue and fix
it, to make the configuration comply with
the standard again.
Or you can automate the change.
You can also compare configurations between
devices, and between different versions of
configurations on the same device.
These are just some examples of what you can
do with these tools.
Basically, they solve the problem of managing
the configurations of devices in networks
with hundreds or thousands of different devices.
Now let’s take a look at the basic characteristics
of each of these three tools.
First up, Ansible.
Ansible is a configuration management tool
owned by Red Hat, famous for Red Hat Linux.
Ansible itself is written in Python.
The other two I’ll introduce, Puppet and
Chef, are written in a different language,
Ruby.
Ansible is agentless.
So, what does that mean?
It means that it doesn’t require any special
software to run on the managed devices.
Instead, Ansible simply uses SSH to connect
to devices, make configuration changes, extract
information, etc.
This is a big advantage of Ansible which makes
it very versatile, and it’s probably the
reason that it is the most popular choice
for network device configuration management.
Ansible also uses what’s called a push model.
The Ansible server, also called the control
node, uses SSH to connect to managed devices
and push configuration changes to them.
This is different than Puppet and Chef which
use a pull model, in which the managed devices
connect to the server to receive their configurations.
After installing Ansible, you must create
several text files that it can use.
Playbooks are the ‘blueprint’ of automation
tasks.
They outline the logic and actions of the
tasks that Ansible should do, and these playbooks
are written in YAML.
Then you’ll also need inventory files which
list the devices that will be managed by Ansible,
as well as their characteristics.
For example, their device role such as access
switch, core switch, WAN router, firewall
etc can be listed as a characteristic.
These inventory files can be written in multiple
formats, such as INI or YAML.
You also need templates, which as you saw
earlier represent a device configuration file,
but specific values for variables are not
provided, for example the host name and IP
addresses.
These templates are written in a format called
Jinja2.
And finally you’ll need variable files.
They list variables and their values, as you
also saw earlier.
These values are substituted into the templates
to create complete configuration files, and
these files are written in YAML.
Let’s look at a diagram to visualize how
this works.
So, here we have our inventory, templates,
variables, and playbook.
The inventory provides a list of devices,
the template files provide configuration templates
for the devices, and the variables provide
specific variables and their values.
These inputs are given to the playbook which
takes the necessary actions to push the config
to the managed devices.
Okay, that’s all for Ansible.
You should know that it is agentless, written
in Python, uses a push model, uses SSH to
connect to devices, and uses YAML for its
necessary files.
Next up, Puppet.
Puppet is a configuration management tool
written in the programming language Ruby.
It is typically agent-based, which means that
specific software, a Puppet agent, must be
installed on the managed devices.
And not all Cisco devices support a Puppet
agent, which is a major reason that Ansible
is more popular for network device management.
However it can be run agentless, in which
a proxy agent runs on an external host and
the proxy agent uses SSH to connect to the
managed devices and communicate with them.
Note that in Puppet the server is called the
Puppet master.
And Puppet uses a pull model, so clients pull
configurations from the Puppet master instead
of the Puppet master pushing configurations
to them.
And note that clients use TCP 8140 to communicate
with the Puppet master.
You probably should remember that port number.
And instead of YAML, it uses a proprietary
language for its files.
Like Ansible it requires some different text
files on the Puppet master, for example a
Manifest file defines the desired configuration
state of a network device.
The Puppet master then uses this Manifest
to generate specific configurations for the
managed devices.
And just like Ansible, templates are used
too, in this case to help generate Manifests
for the devices.
Here’s a very simplified look at that.
Note that some of the devices have a Puppet
agent installed which provides a REST API
to communicate with the device, but one doesn’t.
Instead it will communicate via the external
agent.
In both cases, the network devices are able
to pull configurations from the Puppet master.
Okay, that’s Puppet.
Remember that it’s written in Ruby, is typically
agent-based, the server is called the Puppet
master, it uses a pull model, clients use
TCP 8140 to communicate with the Puppet master,
it uses a proprietary language for its files
instead of YAML, and uses Manifests to define
the desired configuration state of devices.
Those are the main points you should know
about Puppet.
Finally let’s look at Chef.
Like Puppet, it is a configuration management
tool written in Ruby.
It is agent-based, so specific software, a
Chef agent, must be installed on the managed
devices.
And not all Cisco devices support a Chef agent,
in fact most don’t.
So, this is the least popular of the three
choices.
Like Puppet, Chef also uses a Pull model.
And the Chef server uses TCP port 10002 to
send configurations to clients.
It uses various other ports, too, but you
should remember 10002.
And Chef’s files use a DSL, Domain-Specific
Language, which is based on Ruby.
So, what are some of those files used by Chef.
We have resources, which are like the ingredients
in a recipe.
They define configuration objects managed
by Chef.
A configuration object could be, for example,
a set of configuration commands.
Then there are recipes, like the recipes in
a cookbook.
They outline the logic and actions of the
tasks performed on the resources.
And of course there are cookbooks too, sets
of related recipes grouped together.
And finally run-lists, which are an ordered
list of recipes that are run to bring a device
to the desired configuration state.
And here’s a diagram from the Chef website
demonstrating the architecture.
Admins will do their work on a Chef workstation,
a computer they use to prepare cookbooks,
recipes, etc.
Required information is stored on a Chef server,
and the managed devices, the Chef clients,
communicate with the Chef server.
Notice that possible clients include servers,
storage devices, virtual platforms, public
clouds, and of course network devices.
As mentioned earlier, these tools weren’t
designed specifically for network devices,
and they can be used for various purposes.
So, that’s Chef.
Remember that it is written in Ruby, is agent-based,
uses a pull model, uses TCP 10002 to send
configurations, and its files such as cookbooks
use a language based on Ruby.
And finally, here’s a chart comparing the
three.
Something I didn’t mention clearly is that
Puppet and Chef both communicate using HTTP,
via their REST APIs.
I recommend memorizing these basic characteristics
as shown in the chart, you may be tested on
them.
Okay, here’s what we covered in this video.
I introduced configuration management tools
and what we use them for.
And then I introduced three that you should
know for the CCNA: Ansible, Puppet, and Chef.
We only covered some very basic characteristics
of each of them, but that’s all you need
to know for the CCNA.
As you continue your studies you’ll probably
get some hands on experience with these tools,
especially Ansible, but for now you just need
to know the basics.
And make sure to watch until the end of the
quiz for a bonus practice question from Boson
Software’s ExSim, the best practice exams
for the CCNA.
Okay, let’s go to quiz question 1.
Which of the following configuration management
tools connects to devices using SSH?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is B, Ansible.
Ansible is agentless, so the control node
simply connects to managed devices using SSH.
Now, a Puppet external agent also connects
to devices using SSH, but standard Puppet
architecture does not, so Ansible is definitely
the better answer here.
Okay, let’s go to question 2.
Which of the following configuration management
tools use a pull model?
Select all that apply.
Pause the video now to select the best answers.
Okay, the answers are A, Chef and C, Puppet.
They both use a pull model, whereas Ansible
uses a push model.
Okay, let’s go to question 3.
Which of the following configuration management
tools use a client-server model?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay, the answer is D, all of the above.
Now, in this video I didn’t explicitly state
that Ansible, Puppet, or Chef use a client-server
model, but in describing their operations
I mentioned servers and clients.
Okay, let’s go to question 4.
Which of the following configuration management
tools are written in Ruby?
Select all that apply.
Pause the video now to select the best answers.
Okay, the answers are A, Chef and C, Puppet.
Both of these tools are written in Ruby, whereas
Ansible is written in Python.
Okay, let’s go to question 5.
Which of the following configuration management
tools uses playbooks?
Pause the video now to select the best answer.
Okay the answer is B, Ansible.
Ansible playbooks are the blueprints of automation
tasks.
They outline the logic and actions of the
tasks that Ansible should perform.
Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
Now let’s try a bonus question from Boson
Software’s ExSim for CCNA.

######################################################################
# VIDEO 125: Terraform | CCNA 200-301 Day 63 (part 2)
# Domain: 6-Automation
######################################################################

Hi from Tokyo Japan, and welcome to Jeremy’s 
IT Lab. In this video we’re covering another  
recent addition to the CCNA exam, Terraform. The 
exam blueprint previously listed Ansible, Puppet,  
and Chef as the configuration management tools 
you need to know for the exam. Cisco recently  
changed that to Ansible and Terraform. However 
I’m keeping Puppet and Chef in the course for  
two reasons. First, notice the wording of the 
new exam topic: Recognize the capabilities  
of configuration management mechanisms, 
“such as” Ansible and Terraform. For me,  
the words “such as” imply that there could be 
others on the exam. Second, Puppet and Chef  
help illustrate key concepts, like comparing the 
agentless architecture of Ansible and Terraform  
to the agent-based architecture of Puppet and 
Chef. So instead of modifying the previous video,  
I’m adding this new one to focus on Terraform.
Before we get started, let me take a minute to  
shill my books, Acing the CCNA Exam volumes 
1 and 2. These books cover everything on the  
latest version of the CCNA exam, including the 
topics of this video. The very final chapter,  
chapter 25 of volume 2, focuses on Ansible 
and Terraform, and also includes a bit about  
Puppet and Chef. I always recommend using books in 
combination with a video course, so if you want to  
get my books, check out the links on the screen 
now to buy them directly from the publisher,  
or find them on Amazon. Now let’s get started.
So, what are we going to cover in this video?  
Of course, the focus is on Terraform, but 
I’ll take the opportunity to introduce a few  
new concepts. Specifically, we’ll talk about 
the concept of infrastructure as code, IaC;  
Terraform and the other tools we’ve covered 
are examples of IaC. Then we’ll compare  
infrastructure provisioning and configuration 
management. Whereas Ansible is primarily used  
for configuration management, Terraform leans 
toward provisioning. We’ll then cover the  
concepts of mutable vs immutable infrastructure, 
and procedural vs declarative approaches. Finally,  
we’ll shift our focus to Terraform itself 
and cover its basics. Okay, let’s begin.
First let’s look at the concept of infrastructure 
as code. Actually, we’ve already covered it,  
I just didn’t use the specific term in 
the last video. Infrastructure as code,  
IaC, is the practice of provisioning and 
managing infrastructure, such as servers,  
networks, and cloud resources, using 
machine-readable configuration files,  
code, instead of manual configuration via 
CLI or GUI. That probably sounds familiar,  
because Ansible, Puppet, and Chef are examples of 
IaC configuration management tools. For example,  
Ansible manages device configurations using 
several files that are used by the control  
node. We covered these in the previous 
video. Ansible uses playbook, inventory,  
template, and variable files. Ansible runs on 
the control node and uses these files to manage  
the infrastructure. Instead of configuring the 
devices via the CLI or GUI, their configurations  
are managed via these code files, hence the 
term “infrastructure as code”. Terraform,  
on the other hand, is an IaC-based provisioning 
tool that automates the creation of infrastructure  
resources. In the next slide I’ll clarify the 
difference between configuration management and  
provisioning, but Terraform is primarily used for 
provisioning. So, to summarize, infrastructure as  
code automates infrastructure deployment and 
management, ensuring consistency, scalability,  
and repeatability. Basically, the various benefits 
of automation that we covered in previous videos.
So, I mentioned that Ansible, Puppet, and Chef are 
primarily configuration management tools, whereas  
Terraform is primarily a provisioning tool. Let’s 
clarify what the difference is. First, what is  
configuration management? Tools like Ansible, 
Puppet, and Chef manage existing infrastructure  
by installing software, configuring settings, and 
maintaining system state. This ensures consistency  
by applying and enforcing configurations across 
multiple devices. Again, these are the benefits  
of Ansible, Puppet, and Chef that I covered 
in the previous video. As for infrastructure  
provisioning, it creates, modifies, and deletes 
infrastructure resources such as servers and  
network infrastructure. For example, creating 
virtual servers and routers on a cloud platform  
like AWS. But the focus is on initial setup 
rather than ongoing configuration management.  
To summarize, configuration management tools work 
on already existing systems, whereas provisioning  
tools build infrastructure from scratch. Of 
course, these tools can be used together.  
For example, Terraform, a provisioning tool, 
and Ansible, a configuration management tool,  
often work as a pair. Terraform 
provisions infrastructure, creating VMs,  
network infrastructure, storage, and other 
resources, while Ansible provides ongoing  
configuration and management, maintaining 
those systems. With all of that said,  
both Terraform and Ansible have some overlap. Each 
can perform both provisioning and configuration  
management to some extent. But their strengths 
are different, so they’re often used together.
One major difference between infrastructure 
provisioning and management tools is the  
approach they take with the infrastructure: 
is the infrastructure mutable or immutable?  
Configuration management tools typically 
use a mutable infrastructure approach. This  
means that infrastructure can be modified after 
deployment, such as applying updates, patches,  
or configuration changes. In other words, changes 
are made in place, meaning existing resources are  
updated rather than replaced. This is just like 
when you manually modify a device’s configuration  
in the CLI. So, when using a mutable approach, 
if you want to update the config of this VM,  
Ansible or a similar tool would simply update the 
config while leaving the VM itself in place. Only  
the relevant settings are changed. So, what’s 
the alternative to mutable infrastructure?  
Provisioning tools like Terraform typically 
employ an immutable infrastructure approach.  
This means that infrastructure cannot be changed 
after deployment. So, any changes you make involve  
replacing the previous resource with a new one. If 
you want to update the configuration of this VM,  
Terraform or a similar tool would have to 
create an updated instance of the VM with  
the configuration changes applied, and then 
destroy the old instance. One benefit of this  
approach is that there is no configuration drift. 
Each deployment starts from a fresh, predefined  
state. There’s no opportunity for individual 
changes to accumulate with each configuration.  
Configuration drift isn’t a major issue when 
Ansible or other mutable infrastructure tools  
are properly managed. But Terraform’s immutable 
approach virtually eliminates the risk altogether
The final concept we’ll cover before focusing 
on Terraform itself is the difference between  
a procedural and declarative approach. Some 
tools take a procedural approach to managing  
infrastructure, also called an imperative 
approach. This means that the tool follows  
explicit steps in a specific order to achieve the 
desired outcome. So the user, the engineer using  
the tool, must define each specific action in the 
correct order to configure the infrastructure.  
This provides greater control than the declarative 
approach we’ll cover next, but is more demanding  
on the user. They have to know exactly which steps 
are required to achieve their desired end result,  
and in which order those steps should be 
executed. Then there is the declarative approach,  
which defines the desired end state instead 
of the specific steps. The tool itself,  
such as Terraform, figures out the steps needed to 
achieve the goal. This makes it easier to maintain  
and ensure consistency across deployments because 
the user doesn’t have to worry about ordering  
individual commands and configurations on each 
platform. They only have to think about defining  
what they want the final result to be. So, to 
summarize, A procedural approach focuses on how  
to make changes with explicit steps. For example, 
when configuring a new router, configure the  
router’s hostname with HOSTNAME R1. Configure the 
IP address of G0/1 with the IP ADDRESS command.  
Enable the interface with NO SHUTDOWN, , and 
so on. These are the specific configurations  
needed on a Cisco router, and the steps would be 
different if it was a Juniper router, for example.  
A declarative approach, on the other hand, focuses 
on what the final state should be. You can tell  
Terraform “Create a router named R1 with IP 
address 192.168.1.1/24 on its G0/1 interface,  
ensuring the interface is enabled”. Terraform 
should then figure out the necessary steps to  
achieve that end state. So, I’ve mentioned 
that Terraform uses a declarative approach,  
but you’re probably wondering about the others. 
Here’s a table. I’ve categorized Ansible and  
Chef as procedural, but it’s worth noting that 
they do have some declarative elements as well,  
especially Ansible. People who use Ansible 
a lot might get angry at me for categorizing  
Ansible as procedural. But Red Hat, the 
company that owns and develops Ansible,  
also says it is procedural, so for your CCNA 
studies I’d say it’s best to consider Ansible  
a procedural tool. Meanwhile, Terraform 
and Puppet use a declarative approach,  
allowing you to define the desired end state 
and let the tool figure out the rest for you.
Finally let’s move on to Terraform, which is an 
open-source IaC tool developed by HashiCorp, an  
American company that was acquired by IBM in 2025. 
As I’ve mentioned a few times, it is primarily  
a provisioning tool, focused on deploying 
infrastructure resources on various cloud and  
on-prem platforms. In Terraform, these platforms 
are called providers and include AWS, Azure,  
GCP, Kubernetes, and many more; it supports over 
1000 different providers. For CCNA students, this  
includes integrations with Cisco platforms like 
Catalyst Center, ACI, which is Application Centric  
Infrastructure, Cisco’s data center SDN solution. 
And IOS XE, which is the type of IOS you’ll find  
on modern Cisco devices like Catalyst switches. 
Like Ansible, Terraform uses a push model and  
is agentless. It doesn’t require a software agent 
on infrastructure it provisions or manages. Okay,  
now let’s see how Terraform actually works. At 
the core of Terraform is Terraform Core; this is  
the main Terraform software, typically running on 
a Linux server, that processes configurations and  
interacts with providers. An engineer creates 
Terraform configuration files, which specify  
the desired end state in a declarative fashion. 
It’s up to Terraform Core to take that desired  
end state and deploy the necessary infrastructure 
on the appropriate provider or providers, such as  
deploying cloud resources on AWS. It does this via 
each provider’s APIs. And one more key element is  
the state file, which Terraform uses to track the 
state of the deployed infrastructure. By comparing  
the current state of the infrastructure 
to the desired end state defined in the  
configuration files, Terraform can identify which 
actions it needs to take, and in which order,  
to achieve the desired result. To summarize, 
these are Terraform’s four key components,  
all working together to provision and manage 
infrastructure: Terraform Core, the core software  
developed by HashiCorp. Configuration files, 
which an engineer creates to define the desired  
end state of the infrastructure. The state 
file, which tracks the current state of the  
deployed infrastructure. And the providers, the 
platforms on which the infrastructure is deployed.
Let’s cover a few more key points about Terraform. 
The basic Terraform workflow consists of three  
main steps. The first is “write”, in 
which you define the desired end state  
of your infrastructure resources in configuration 
files. The second step is “plan,” where Terraform  
analyzes your configuration files and shows you 
exactly what changes will be made. This lets  
you review and confirm the changes before applying 
them. And the third step is apply, where Terraform  
executes the plan to provision and manage the 
infrastructure resources. That’s basically how it  
works. If you think back to Ansible, hopefully you 
remember that Ansible itself is written in Python,  
while its playbooks are written in YAML. So 
what about Terraform? While Terraform Core is  
written in Go, the configuration files that 
define the desired end state are written in  
HashiCorp Configuration Language, HCL. HCL is 
an example of a domain-specific language, DSL,  
which is specialized for a particular purpose, 
like Puppet’s DSL mentioned in the previous  
video. Since DSLs are designed for specific 
tasks, they make complex operations simpler,  
and they require less effort compared to 
general-purpose languages like Python or  
Go. The downside is that HCL is another thing 
you have to learn specifically to use Terraform,  
but it’s relatively simple compared to learning 
a full programming language. So, the key points  
to remember here are the three steps of the 
Terraform workflow: write, plan, and apply.  
And also remember that Terraform Core is written 
in Go, while the configuration files you make are  
written in HashiCorp Configuration Language, 
HCL, which is a Domain Specific Language.
Okay, those are the basics of Terraform. Now 
here’s a one-slide summary before we move on to  
the quiz. Infrastructure as Code is the practice 
of provisioning and managing infrastructure using  
machine-readable configuration files instead 
of manual configuration. Ansible, Puppet,  
Chef, and Terraform are all examples of IaC 
tools. But not all IaC tools are used for the  
exact same purpose. Configuration management 
tools like Ansible, Puppet, and Chef focus on  
managing existing infrastructure, doing things 
like installing software, configuring settings,  
and generally maintaining the state of your 
systems. Infrastructure provisioning tools like  
Terraform, on the other hand, focus on creating, 
modifying, and deleting infrastructure resources.  
That doesn’t mean that Ansible can’t be used to 
provision resources or Terraform can’t be used to  
make configuration changes, it’s just that each 
tool is better fit for a different purpose. We  
then covered mutable infrastructure, which means 
that the infrastructure can be modified after  
deployment. And immutable infrastructure, meaning 
that it cannot be changed after deployment. Any  
changes involve replacing the previous resource 
with a new, updated version, and then deleting the  
old one. Provisioning tools like Terraform use an 
immutable approach, whereas management tools like  
Ansible use a mutable approach to infrastructure. 
We then compared the procedural and declarative  
approaches. A procedural, also called imperative, 
approach follows explicit steps in a specific  
order to achieve the desired outcome, and these 
steps must be specified by the engineer using the  
tool. A declarative approach defines the desired 
end state, and the IaC tool, such as Terraform,  
figures out the steps needed to achieve that goal, 
and in which order they should be executed. Okay,  
finally we looked at Terraform itself, it’s an 
open-source IaC tool developed by HashiCorp. It’s  
primarily a provisioning tool used for deploying 
infrastructure on providers like AWS, Azure,  
GCP, Kubernetes, etc. Terraform interacts with 
these providers via their APIs. Like Ansible,  
it uses a push model and is agentless. Its main 
components are Terraform Core, the configuration  
files where you specify the desired end state, 
the state file that tracks the current state of  
the infrastructure, and the providers. The basic 
workflow consists of three main steps: write,  
plan, and apply. You could also add a fourth step 
there: destroy, in which you delete the resources  
after they are no longer needed. But these three 
are considered the main steps. Terraform Core is  
written in Go, and the configuration files are 
written in HashiCorp Configuration Language,  
which is a domain-specific language. Alright, 
that’s what we covered in this video. Just a  
very high-level overview of Terraform, but 
as long as you know these basics you should  
be ready for the CCNA exam. Now let’s do 
a short quiz to test your understanding.
Here’s quiz question 1. Which of 
the following are characteristics  
of Terraform? (select two) Pause the 
video now to think about your answers.
Okay, the answers are B, declarative, and 
C, immutable infrastructure. Terraform  
uses a declarative approach in which 
you specify the desired end state and  
Terraform takes care of the rest for you. 
It also uses immutable infrastructure,  
where a particular resource can’t be changed after 
provisioning. To change a resource, Terraform will  
deploy a new version of the resource and then 
delete the old one instead. Okay, next question.
Here’s question 2. What are the three 
main steps of the Terraform workflow?  
Pause the video now to think about your answer.
Okay, the answer is D, write, plan, apply. In 
the write step, you define the desired state of  
your infrastructure in configuration files. In 
the plan step you verify the changes that will  
be executed before applying them. And then 
in apply, Terraform applies whatever changes  
necessary to bring the infrastructure in line with 
the desired state. Now let’s do one more question.
Here’s quiz question 3. Which of the 
following IaC tools are focused on  
configuration management? Select three. Pause 
the video now to think about your answers.
Okay, the answers are A, C, and D. Ansible, Chef,  
and Puppet are primarily used for configuration 
management, whereas Terraform is a provisioning  
tool. To take advantage of the strengths of 
each, it’s fairly common to use a combination,  
such as Terraform and Ansible. These tools 
aren’t exclusive and can be used together.
Okay, that’s all for this video. We covered some 
additional concepts related to Infrastructure  
as Code that weren’t covered in the 
previous video, and then focused on  
the basics of Terraform, a very popular 
IaC provisioning tool. For the CCNA exam,  
I recommend knowing the basics of Terraform 
introduced in this video. You should also  
be able to compare and contrast it with the 
other tools we covered in the previous video:  
Ansible, Puppet, and Chef. I hope this 
video was helpful. Thanks for watching.

######################################################################
# VIDEO 126: Complete Network Configuration // CCNA Mega Lab! / OSPF, VLANs, STP, DHCP, Security, Wireless + more
# Domain: 3-IP_Connectivity
######################################################################

Welcome to the Jeremy’s IT Lab CCNA mega lab.
In this lab, we’ll cover every configuration
topic you need to know for the CCNA exam.
Just a warning: this lab is intense.
If you’ve studied all of the exam topics
and are getting ready to take on the CCNA
exam itself, you’ve come to the right place.
Now, we won’t cover every single configuration
command you should know, but we will cover
all configuration topics on the CCNA exam.
IPv4 and IPv6, static routes, VLANs, spanning
tree, OSPF, EtherChannel, DHCP, DNS, NAT,
SSH, security features, wireless, and more
– everything!
If you want to dive deeper into any particular
topic, such as specific OSPF configurations,
you can check out the relevant videos in my
CCNA course, or the relevant chapter in my
CCNA book.
The point of this lab is to tie everything
together, instead of focusing on each individual
technology or protocol in detail.
And the point of this video is to demonstrate
the correct solution to this lab, rather than
to explain the details of each concept again.
You may notice that this lab file isn’t
a typical .pkt Packet Tracer file.
It’s a .pka, Packet Tracer activity, file.
Pka files include automated grading, so after
you complete the lab, you can click Check
Results here to see if you configured everything
correctly.
Now, by default, the instructions here are
a separate window like this, but I’ll click
‘Dock’ here to dock them into the same
window as the lab topology, so we can easily
see the instructions as we go through the
lab.
The network topology for this lab is a three-tier
LAN consisting of two offices, Office A on
the left and Office B on the right.
The two offices are connected via a core layer,
and R1 provides Internet access with two redundant
connections.
If you click on the Internet here, you can
see it simply consists of two routers that
I have labeled ISP A and ISP B. You don’t
have to worry about these routers for this
lab; you only need to configure the network
from the perspective of the customer of these
ISPs – the enterprise connected to the Internet.
So, click on this back arrow here to return
to the rest of the network.
So, before diving in let’s read the lab
introduction here.
It says this comprehensive lab covers all
configuration topics on the CCNA exam.
Proceed through the steps in order and click
Check Results when you are done to check your
configurations.
So, as you can see here this is page 1 of
10.
You can click next to go through the different
pages to see the different steps.
But there is an important note here that says
You must save the device configurations, for
example with the COPY RUNNING-CONFIG STARTUP-CONFIG
command, or you will receive no points.
The grading system for most of this lab checks
the startup-config of each device to make
sure it matches the one I prepared beforehand,
so make sure to save each device’s configuration
or you won’t get points.
And finally, at the bottom it says this lab
is quite extensive, so you should set aside
at least a couple of hours to finish all of
it.
Here at the start of this video I have no
idea how long the video itself will be, but
I do know it’s going to be the longest video
I’ve ever made.
So, enough talking, I’ll click on Next to
begin part 1 of this lab, which is Initial
Setup.
So, we’re going to configure four main things
in this section: in step 1 we’ll configure
the hostname of each router and switch.
In step 2, we’ll configure an enable secret
to protect access to privileged exec mode.
In step 3, we’ll configure a user account.
And then in step 4 we’ll configure the console
line of each device.
So, let’s start with step 1, configuring
hostnames.
I’ll open the CLI of R1.
Now, recording this video on a single screen
is a bit of a challenge.
Ideally, I’d like to show the instructions,
the topology, and the CLI all at once, but
there’s just not enough real estate on the
screen.
So, I’ve prioritized making the CLI larger
so you can see all of the configurations easily.
I’ll show the instructions in between each
step, but while we’re doing the configurations
you won’t be able to see them.
So, first I’ll use ENABLE to enter privileged
EXEC mode here on R1.
Then CONF T to enter global config mode.
And then HOSTNAME R1 to configure the router’s
hostname.
The hostnames must match what’s shown in
the diagram here.
Okay, I configured R1’s hostname, but if
I look at the lab instructions, notice that
the completion rate is still 0%.
That’s because the evaluation is checking
the device’s startup-config, but the command
I just entered only changed the running-config.
To copy that configuration to the startup-config,
I’ll use DO WRITE, but you could also use
WRITE MEMORY or COPY RUNNING-CONFIG STARTUP-CONFIG;
all three commands have the same effect.
Then go back to check the completion score
again, and now we’re at 1%.
Because you have to configure many hundreds
of commands in this lab, don’t expect the
completion score to increase after every single
new command you configure.
However, as you go through the lab, I recommend
saving the device configurations and checking
that the score is increasing as you proceed.
Now I’ll configure the hostnames of the
core, distribution, and access switches.
For the sake of completeness, I will show
all of these configurations in this video,
but feel free to skip ahead if you don’t
want to watch these repetitive commands.
So, I’ll open up CSW1.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME CSW1.
And I’ll save the configuration with DO
WRITE.
Next, CSW2.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME CSW2.
And save the config with DO WRITE.
Next up we have the distribution switches:
DSW-A1 and A2, and DSW-B1 and B2.
I’ll start with DSW-A1.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME DSW-A1.
DO WRITE.
Then DSW-A2.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME DSW-A2.
DO WRITE.
Next, in Office B, DSW-B1.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME DSW-B1.
DO WRITE.
Finally, DSW-B2.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME DSW-B2.
DO WRITE.
Finally, the same deal on the access switches,
starting with ASW-A1.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME ASW-A1.
And save the config with DO WRITE.
Then ASW-A2.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME ASW-A2.
DO WRITE.
Then A3.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME ASW-A3.
DO WRITE.
Then move on to office B, starting with ASW-B1.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME ASW-B1.
DO WRITE.
Then B2.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME ASW-B2.
DO WRITE.
Finally, B3.
ENABLE.
CONF T. HOSTNAME ASW-B3.
DO WRITE.
Okay, let’s take a look at the instructions
again.
Take a look at the completion score: it’s
increased a lot already.
Don’t get too excited – we’re just getting
started.
When the lab first starts, the devices all
have no startup-config, so there’s nothing
to evaluate.
But when you first save the configs, various
default configurations like interface names
are saved to the startup-config; that’s
why the score jumps up after just configuring
the host names and saving the configs.
From now on I won’t save the configs after
every single step; I’ll just save them after
each section of the lab to show how the score
increases as we progress.
Now let’s look at steps 2, 3, and 4 together.
Step 2 says to configure the enable secret
‘jeremysitlab’ on each router and switch.
It also says to use type 9 hashing if available,
or type 5 if type 9 isn’t available.
Let’s hop on R1 again to demonstrate.
From global config mode, type ENABLE and then
a question mark to view the IOS context-sensitive
help.
So, the options are PASSWORD and SECRET.
Now let’s go to a different device, CSW1,
and see the options.
Again, type ENABLE and a question mark to
see the options.
Notice there is a third option: ALGORITHM-TYPE.
This lets you specify the hashing algorithm
that is used to hide the enable secret in
the config.
I cover this command in my book ‘Acing the
CCNA Exam’, but I haven’t covered it in
my video course, so you might not be aware
of it.
At some point I’ll update the course and
include it.
Anyway, in Packet Tracer, these core and distribution
switches, which are Cisco Catalyst 3650 switches,
support this command, and you can use type
9 hashing on them.
But the other devices, including R1 and all
of the access switches, don’t support the
command.
They only support type 5 hashing, which is
MD5.
So, I’ll return to R1.
Configure the enable secret with ENABLE SECRET
jeremysitlab.
And then check with DO SHOW RUN, use the pipe
(|) to filter the output, then ‘include
secret’.
As you can see, the secret is hashed using
type 5, which is MD5.
And then on CSW1, I’ll do ENABLE ALGORITHM-TYPE,
and then use a question mark again.
It has the ‘scrypt’ option; this is type
9 hashing, it uses the scrypt hashing algorithm.
So, let’s finish the command.
ENABLE ALGORITHM-TYPE SCRYPT SECRET jeremysitlab.
And let’s check.
DO SHOW RUN | INCLUDE secret.
So, as this number 9 indicates before the
hash, the secret was hashed using the type
9 algorithm, scrypt.
So, we’ll configure type 9 hashing on the
core and distribution switches, and type 5
on R1 and the access switches.
But before we do that, let’s check out steps
3 and 4.
Step 3 says to configure the user account
‘cisco’ with the secret ‘ccna’ on
each device.
And it says the same thing about hashing:
type 9 if available, and type 5 if not.
Just like the enable secret, in Packet Tracer
these multilayer switches in the core and
distribution layer support type 9, but R1
and the access switches only support type
5.
Once again, let me demonstrate that in the
CLI, on R1 first.
First type USERNAME, then the username ‘cisco’,
and then use the question mark.
There is no option for ALGORITHM-TYPE, so
I’ll just type SECRET and then the password
‘ccna’.
Let’s check again with DO SHOW RUN | INCLUDE
secret.
Like the enable secret, this user account’s
secret was hashed with MD5, which is type
5 in IOS.
Now let’s compare that with CSW1.
First, type USERNAME cisco, and then use the
question mark.
This one has the ALGORITHM-TYPE option, so
I’ll type that, followed by SCRYPT, then
SECRET, and then the secret ‘ccna’.
And let’s check.
DO SHOW RUN | INCLUDE secret.
So, both the enable secret and this account’s
secret were hashed with the scrypt, algorithm,
which is type 9 in IOS.
So, on these multilayer switches in the core
and distribution layers we’ll use type 9,
and on R1 and the access switches we’ll
use type 5.
But before doing that let’s finally take
a look at step 4.
Step 4 says to configure the console line
to require login with a local user account,
set a 30-minute inactivity timeout, and enable
synchronous logging.
So, that requires 3 configuration commands,
and these will be the same on all of the devices.
I’ll show them on R1 first.
First, use LINE CONSOLE 0 to configure the
console line – there’s only one.
The first instruction was to require login
with a local user account.
The command to enable that is LOGIN LOCAL.
Now, when someone connects to the device console
port, they will have to log in using a user
account on the device, such as the ‘cisco’
account we just created.
The next instruction was to set a 30-minute
inactivity timeout, meaning that the user
will be logged out after 30 minutes of inactivity.
I’ll use the question mark, and here you
can see the command.
EXEC-TIMEOUT.
Type the command, and then the time in minutes,
so 30.
You can also specify seconds after, for example
30 minutes and 30 seconds, but we don’t
need to in this case.
Finally, we should enable synchronous logging.
The command for that is LOGGING SYNCHRONOUS.
With that enabled, if a Syslog message appears
while I’m in the middle of writing a command,
the command will be re-printed on a new line,
making it easier to see the command I’m
typing; it won’t be cut off by the log message.
Okay, I’ve finished steps 2, 3, and 4 on
R1, so I’ll use DO WRITE to save and EXIT
to return to global config mode.
Now, for the rest of the devices, I’m simply
going to copy and paste the commands.
When you’re doing large labs like this that
require configuring the same commands on many
devices, this is a great technique to speed
things up and also avoid typos and misconfigurations.
So, I’ve prepared the commands in a text
file, but I won’t include it in the lab
files.
When you do the lab, you can either type the
commands directly into the CLI, or you can
do what I did: prepare the commands in a text
file like this, and then copy and paste them
into the CLI.
So, at the top here are the commands for R1
and the access switches.
The enable secret, the user account, and the
console line configurations.
I’m going to copy them with Ctrl-C, and
then paste them into the access switches,
since I already configured R1.
Let’s do it on ASW-A1 first.
To paste commands in Packet Tracer, right
click in the terminal and then click on Paste.
There we go, all of the commands were pasted
in.
Finally, I’ll just save the config with
DO WRITE and return to global config mode
with EXIT.
Next, ASW-A2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
Then A3.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
Now move on to Office B. ASW-B1 first.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
Then B2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
And finally ASW-B3.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
So, R1 and the access switches are done.
Now let’s take a look at that notepad again
and scroll down.
These switches in Packet Tracer support type
9 hashing for the enable secret and user accounts,
so we’ll use those commands that I showed
before on CSW1, and also configure the console
line.
So, highlight and copy all of these commands,
and let’s go on CSW1.
We already configured the enable secret and
user account here, but not the console line.
I’ll just paste all of the commands in anyway.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT to
return to global config mode.
Next up, CSW2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
Then the distribution switches, DSW-A1 first.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, EXIT.
Then DSW-A2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, and EXIT.
DSW-B1 next.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, EXIT.
And finally, DSW-B2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE, EXIT.
Okay, we’ve finished part 1.
Notice that the completion score has increased
a few points.
Still a long way to go, so let’s click Next
to go to part 2.
Part 2 covers VLAN and Layer-2 EtherChannel
configurations.
So, we’ll be focusing on the distribution
and access switches in this part.
First, let’s quickly look at the instructions.
Step 1 says to configure a Layer-2 EtherChannel
between DSW-A1 and A2 in Office A using a
Cisco-proprietary protocol, and step 2 says
the same for DSW-B1 and B2, but says to use
an open standard protocol.
So, a Cisco-proprietary protocol means we’ll
configure PAgP, Port Aggregation Protocol,
between DSW-A1 and A2, and an open standard
protocol means we’ll configure LACP, Link
Aggregation Control Protocol, between DSW-B1
and B2.
Okay, step 3 then says to configure all links
between access and distribution switches,
including the EtherChannels, as trunks.
So, all of these links here should be trunks.
In Step 4, we’ll configure VTP on these
switches so they can sync their VLAN databases
automatically.
Then, in steps 5 and 6 we’ll create the
appropriate VLANs in Office A and Office B.
And in steps 7 and 8 we’ll configure each
access switch’s interfaces connecting to
end hosts, and finally in step 9 disable unused
ports.
So, that’s part 2, focused on various Layer-2
concepts.
Let’s start by configuring those EtherChannels.
First, I’ll do step 1, focusing on DSW-A1
and A2.
We already established that we’ll configure
this one using the Cisco-proprietary PAgP,
but notice also that it says both switches
should actively try to form an EtherChannel.
PAgP has two modes: desirable and auto.
This means we should configure both sides
to use the desirable mode, which actively
tries to form an EtherChannel.
Auto mode will form an EtherChannel with a
neighbor in desirable mode, but doesn’t
try to form an EtherChannel itself.
So, I’ll go on DSW-A1 first.
Now, there are no interface labels on these
devices.
To see them, you can turn on interface labels
in Packet Tracer’s settings.
Or you can look at the spreadsheet that I
included in the lab files – it lists all
of the connections between devices.
You can get the lab files at this URL: jitl.jp/mega-lab.
But the best method is to practice your CLI
skills and use DO SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS.
In the output of this command, you can see
that DSW-A1 is connected to DSW-A2 via its
G1/0/4 and G1/0/5 interfaces.
The ‘Local Interface’ column lists the
interface on this switch, DSW-A1.
And on the final column on the right, you
can see that the same interfaces are used
on DSW-A2: G1/0/4 and G1/0/5.
So, I’ll use INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/4-5 to
configure both interfaces at the same time.
Then, just use CHANNEL-GROUP 1 MODE DESIRABLE
to configure these interfaces as part of PortChannel1.
Now, how do you know which group number to
use?
Look carefully at the lab instructions: it
says ‘configure a Layer-2 EtherChannel named
‘PortChannel1’.
This number, the port channel number, is the
group number.
Make sure to pay close attention to these
instructions.
If you use a different group number, it won’t
be marked correctly when you click on Check
Results at the end of the lab.
Okay, now let’s do the same on DSW-A2.
INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/4-5.
CHANNEL-GROUP 1 MODE DESIRABLE.
And just to make sure I’ll check its status
with DO SHOW ETHERCHANNEL SUMMARY.
So, here’s PortChannel1.
It has the flags S and U, meaning Layer2 and
in use, so that’s good.
And the member ports both have the flag P,
meaning in port-channel.
So, everything looks good.
Next, let’s configure the EtherChannel between
DSW-B1 and B2.
LACP has two modes: active, which is like
PAgP’s desirable mode, and passive, which
is like PAgP’s auto mode.
Like step 1, step 2 says that both switches
should actively try to form an EtherChannel,
so we’ll use active mode.
So, let’s go on DSW-B1.
Like the Office A switches, these two are
connected via G1/0/4 and 5, so INTERFACE RANGE
G1/0/4-5.
Then, CHANNEL-GROUP 1 MODE ACTIVE.
That’s it.
I’ll do the same on DSW-B2.
INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/4-5.
CHANNEL-GROUP 1 MODE ACTIVE.
And just to make sure it’s okay I’ll check
with DO SHOW ETHERCHANNEL SUMMARY.
So, we see the SU flags on the port-channel
interface, and the P flag on the physical
interfaces, so all’s good.
Now let’s move on to step 3, which says
to configure all links between access and
distribution switches, including the EtherChannels,
as trunks.
There are a few requirements.
First, it says to explicitly disable DTP on
all ports.
We’ll use SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE for that.
Then, it says to set each trunk’s native
VLAN to VLAN 1000, which is unused.
That’s a good security measure; the native
VLAN can make the LAN vulnerable to VLAN-hopping
attacks.
Then, we should allow VLANs 10, 20, 40, and
99 on all trunks in Office A, and allow VLANs
10, 20, 30, and 99 on all trunks in Office
B. When we configure the VLANs later, we’ll
see the purpose of each of those VLANs.
For now, just make sure to assign the correct
VLAN numbers.
Okay, first let’s focus on Office A. On
each distribution switch, we need to configure
these three links to the access switches as
trunks, as well as the port channel between
the distribution switches.
So, I’ll hop on DSW-A1.
First, let’s confirm the correct interfaces
with DO SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS.
So, ASW-A1, A2, and A3 are connected to this
switch’s G1/0/1, 1/0/2, and 1/0/3 interfaces.
So, let’s configure those interfaces as
trunks.
INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/1-3.
First, use SWITCHPORT MODE TRUNK to make the
interfaces trunks.
Now, the instructions said to explicitly disable
DTP on the ports.
Even when manually configured in trunk or
access mode, DTP is still technically enabled,
so let’s disable DTP with SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE.
Next, I’ll set the native VLAN with SWITCHPORT
TRUNK NATIVE VLAN 1000.
Finally, set the allowed VLANs.
This is Office A, so I’ll use SWITCHPORT
TRUNK ALLOWED VLAN 10,20,40,99.
Next, I’ll use the same commands on PortChannel1.
INTERFACE PORT-CHANNEL1.
SWITCHPORT MODE TRUNK.
SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE.
SWITCHPORT TRUNK NATIVE VLAN 1000.
And SWITCHPORT TRUNK ALLOWED VLAN 10,20,40,99.
And then EXIT.
Okay, we’re done configuring DSW-A1.
These commands will be similar on most switches,
so I’ll just copy and paste the commands
on the others.
Let me open up the notepad I prepared and
scroll down to Part 2, Step 3.
First, I’ll copy these commands to configure
on DSW-A2, identical to the commands on DSW-A1.
And now let’s go to DSW-A2, right click,
and paste them.
Then, I’ll use EXIT to return to global
config mode.
You don’t have to exit after each step by
the way, it’s just a habit of mine.
Okay, now let’s go back to the notepad and
check the commands for the access switches
in office A. They are connected to the distribution
switches via their G0/1 and G0/2 interfaces,
so the first command is INTERFACE RANGE G0/1-2.
Then, the configuration commands are the same
as the other trunks.
So, let me copy these commands, and first
I’ll go on ASW-A1.
Right click, paste.
EXIT.
Then, ASW-A2.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
Finally, ASW-A3.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
Okay, Office A is done, now let’s go back
to the notepad for the Office B switches.
The configurations for these switches are
nearly identical to Office A.
The only difference is that Office B uses
VLAN 30 instead of VLAN 40.
Just like in Office A, we’ll make the interfaces
trunks, disable DTP with SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE,
configure the native VLAN, and allow only
the required VLANs.
So, let me copy the configurations for the
distribution switches.
Now let’s paste them into DSW-B1 first.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
Then, DSW-B2.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
Now let’s go back to the notepad and copy
the configurations for the access switches.
Then paste them into the switches, starting
with ASW-B1.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
Then B2.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
And then B3.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
That’s all for step 3.
Next, let’s look at step 4.
It says to configure one of each office’s
Distribution switches as a VTPv2 server, using
domain name JeremysITLab.
Then, we’ll verify that other switches join
the VTP domain, and configure all Access switches
as VTP clients.
These configurations won’t take too long,
so I’ll do them manually.
In Office A, I’ll configure VTP on DSW-A1,
and it should propagate the configurations
to the other switches.
First, I’ll use DO SHOW VTP STATUS to confirm
the default state.
So, the default VTP Domain Name is null – no
domain name.
The default version is 1, and the default
operating mode is server.
So, we just need to configure a domain name
and enable VTP version 2.
VTP DOMAIN JeremysITLab.
Make sure you get the capitalization correct;
these are case-sensitive.
Then, VTP VERSION 2.
Making these configurations should cause DSW-A1
to send VTP advertisements, and the other
switches should join the domain.
Let’s check on one other switch to verify,
like ASW-A3.
DO SHOW VTP STATUS.
Okay, ASW-A3 is running VTPv2, and has joined
the JeremysITLab domain.
Now, since step 4 also said to make the access
switches VTP clients, I’ll do that now on
this switch.
VTP MODE CLIENT.
And let’s do it on the others, I’ll go
on A2 next.
VTP MODE CLIENT.
And then A1.
VTP MODE CLIENT.
Okay, so Office A is done.
But Office A’s VTP advertisements won’t
reach Office B. VTP advertisements are only
sent out of trunk ports, and we haven’t
configured these links between the distribution
and core switches as trunks – they’re
currently all in access mode.
Later, we’ll make them Layer-3 links.
So, the point is that we need to activate
VTP in Office B, too.
I’ll go on DSW-B1.
Let’s configure the domain: VTP DOMAIN JeremysITLab.
And then VTPv2: VTP VERSION 2.
Instead of checking on this switch, I’ll
just check on ASW-B3; it should have joined
the domain already.
DO SHOW VTP STATUS.
Okay, VTPv2 and domain name JeremysITLab.
Now let’s configure these access switches
as VTP clients.
VTP MODE CLIENT.
Then, ASW-B2.
VTP MODE CLIENT.
And finally, ASW-B1.
VTP MODE CLIENT.
Okay, step 4 is now complete.
In steps 5 and 6, we’ll create and name
the VLANs in these two LANs.
In Office A, VLAN 10 is for PCs, VLAN 20 for
phones, VLAN 40 for Wi-Fi, and VLAN 99 for
Management.
Office B is similar, but instead of VLAN 40
for Wi-Fi it has VLAN 30 for servers.
As a side note, why do you think that only
Office A has a Wi-Fi VLAN, even though Office
B also has an access point?
Think about that; we’ll address it later.
So, thanks to VTP, we only have to do these
configurations on a single switch in each
VLAN; VTP should propagate the changes to
the other switches.
So, I’ll go on DSW-A1 again.
First, I’ll make VLAN 10, and name it with
the command NAME PCs.
Then, VLAN 20.
Name it with NAME Phones.
Then, the Wi-Fi VLAN, VLAN 40.
NAME Wi-Fi.
And finally, VLAN 99.
NAME Management.
EXIT.
Let’s double check them with DO SHOW VLAN
BRIEF.
Okay, 10 PCs, 20 Phones, 40 Wi-Fi, and 99
Management.
Now let’s check on ASW-A3 again to make
sure that VTP propagated the changes.
Let’s use DO SHOW VLAN BRIEF here.
Perfect, it has the same four VLANs with the
correct names.
Now let’s do the same in Office B, I’ll
configure the VLANs on DSW-B1.
First, VLAN 10.
NAME PCs.
Then VLAN 20.
NAME Phones.
Office B has SRV1, so I’ll create VLAN 30
and name it with NAME Servers.
Finally, VLAN 99.
NAME Management.
EXIT.
This time, I won’t even check the VLANs
on this switch; let’s just go straight to
ASW-B3 and verify that it has synced its VLAN
database.
DO SHOW VLAN BRIEF.
Okay, it has VLAN 10 for PCs, VLAN 20 for
Phones, VLAN 30 for Servers, and VLAN 99 for
Management.
That’s all for steps 5 and 6.
In step 7, we’ll configure each access switch’s
access port.
Of course, in a real network you can expect
many more end hosts, but in a practice lab
like this there’s not much point in connecting
dozens of PCs to these switches; it just clutters
up the screen.
So, ASW-A1 and B1 are both connected to lightweight
Aps - LWAPs.
As step 7a says, LWAPs will not use FlexConnect.
That means that all traffic will be tunneled
to WLC1 in the Management VLAN – VLAN 99
in this case.
So, these connections to LWAPs can be access
ports; they only need to support the Management
VLAN.
By the way, this is also the reason why Office
B doesn’t have a Wi-Fi VLAN.
Traffic from wireless clients in Office B
is tunneled to WLC1 in Office A, and only
then is assigned to VLAN 40, the Wi-Fi VLAN.
So, let’s configure ASW-A1 and B1 first.
Before we go to ASW-A1, notice that step 7d
says to manually configure access mode and
explicitly disable DTP.
So, these ports are in dynamic auto mode by
default and will operate as access ports,
but for this lab we need to manually configure
access mode and disable DTP.
Okay, let’s go on ASW-A1.
These end hosts are connected to each access
switch’s FastEthernet0/1 interface, so I’ll
configure INTERFACE F0/1.
First, manually configure access mode with
SWITCHPORT MODE ACCESS.
DTP is disabled as a side effect of this command
– it will not send or accept DTP messages.
However, the instructions say to explicitly
disable DTP, and the command to do that is
SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE.
The command is redundant in this case, since
configuring access mode stops the port from
sending or accepting DTP messages, but make
sure to read each step carefully and not miss
any configurations, especially on the CCNA
exam.
Finally, let’s assign this port to the management
VLAN: SWITCHPORT ACCESS VLAN 99.
And then EXIT.
Okay, now let’s do the same on ASW-B1.
INTERFACE F0/1.
SWITCHPORT MODE ACCESS.
SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE to explicitly disable
DTP.
And then SWITCHPORT ACCESS VLAN 99.
EXIT.
Okay, these two switches are done.
Next, let’s configure ASW-A2, A3, and B2,
which are connected to IP phones, in VLAN
20, and PCs, in VLAN 10.
Since these three switches will all have the
same configurations, let’s copy and paste
them.
In my notepad I’ll scroll to Part 2, Step
7, and here are the commands.
First configure access mode and explicitly
disable DTP.
Then, configure access VLAN 10, for the PCs,
and voice VLAN 20, for the phones.
So, I’ll copy these commands.
And I’ll paste them into ASW-A2 first.
Right click, paste, and EXIT to return to
global config mode.
Then, ASW-A3.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
Finally, ASW-B2.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
Finally, we also need to configure ASW-B3’s
connection to SRV1 in VLAN30, the Servers
VLAN.
So, on ASW-B3 configure INTERFACE F0/1.
SWITCHPORT MODE ACCESS.
SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE.
SWITCHPORT ACCESS VLAN 30.
EXIT.
Okay, step 7 is done.
Next, let’s do step 8, which says to configure
ASW-A1’s connection to WLC1.
There are three points: it must support the
Wi-Fi and management VLANs, the management
VLAN should be untagged, and we must disable
DTP.
So, I’ll configure it as a trunk port that
allows both VLANs, assign the management VLAN
as the native VLAN, and use SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE
to disable DTP.
Okay, let’s go on ASW-A1.
WLC1 is connected to F0/2, so INTERFACE F0/2.
Make it a trunk with SWITCHPORT MODE TRUNK.
Allow only the Wi-Fi and Management VLANs:
SWITCHPORT TRUNK ALLOWED VLAN 40,99.
Configure the Management VLAN as the native
VLAN: SWITCHPORT TRUNK NATIVE VLAN 99.
And then disable DTP: SWITCHPORT NONEGOTIATE.
EXIT.
Okay, that’s step 8.
Finally, in step 9 we’ll administratively
disable all unused ports on access and distribution
switches.
So, let’s go on DSW-A1 to confirm which
ports we need to disable.
To check, use DO SHOW INTERFACES STATUS.
So, all of these interfaces with the status
‘notconnect’ aren’t connected to another
switch and should be disabled.
So, that’s G1/0/6 to 1/0/24, and G1/1/3
and 1/1/4.
So, let’s disable them all at once.
INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/6-24, then a comma, and
G1/1/3-4.
Okay, now disable them with SHUTDOWN.
And then I’ll use EXIT.
Let’s check with DO SHOW INTERFACES STATUS
again.
Okay, all of the ‘notconnect’ interfaces
are now disabled.
And because this is the last step of this
part, I’ll also use DO WRITE to save the
config.
Now, the other distribution switches use the
same interfaces, so to disable their unused
interfaces I’ll just copy and paste the
commands from my notepad.
Here it is: INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/6-24,G1/1/3-4,
and then SHUTDOWN.
I’ll copy these commands, and then paste
them into DSW-A2 first.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Then B1.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
And finally B2.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Okay, next up, we’ll disable unused interfaces
on the access switches.
First, I’ll go on ASW-A1.
Let’s see which interfaces are in use with
DO SHOW INTERFACES STATUS.
So, F0/1 is connected to an LWAP and F0/2
to WLC1, and then G0/1 and 0/2 are connected
to the distribution switches.
So, we should disable these remaining FastEthernet
interfaces: F0/3 to 24.
INTERFACE RANGE F0/3-24.
SHUTDOWN.
EXIT.
And then DO WRITE to save.
Now, the other access switches are a bit different:
they only have end hosts connected to their
F0/1 interfaces.
They don’t have a WLC connected like ASW-A1
does.
So, instead of disabling F0/3 to 24, we’ll
disable F0/2 to 24.
I’ll copy and paste the configurations from
my notepad.
Here are the commands: INTERFACE RANGE F0/2-24,
SHUTDOWN.
Copy those commands, and then I’ll paste
them into ASW-A2 first.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Then A3.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Move on to ASW-B1 next.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Then B2.
Right click, paste, EXIT DO WRITE.
And finally, ASW-B3.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Okay that’s step 9, and now part 2 of the
lab is complete.
Look at the completion score.
We aren’t actually halfway through the lab
because we got a big boost after configuring
the first step but we’ve made some good
progress.
Now let’s click next to move on to part
3.
Part 3 covers IP addresses, Layer-3 EtherChannel,
and HSRP, Hot Standby Router Protocol.
This part has a lot of steps, most of it involving
configuring IP addresses, so I’ll do lots
of copying and pasting here.
All of the IP addresses are given in the instructions,
but you can also take a look at the spreadsheet
in the lab files; the second tab in the spreadsheet
has a chart showing all of the IP addresses
that you can refer to.
But let’s get started with step 1, which
involves configuring R1’s interfaces.
G0/0/0 and G0/1/0 are connected to the Internet,
and they will use DHCP to learn their IP addresses.
Then, we’ll manually configure 10.0.0.33/30
on G0/0, .37/30 on G0/1, and create and configure
an IP address on loopback0, 10.0.0.76/32.
So, let’s go on the CLI of R1.
First, I’ll configure G0/0/0 and G0/1/0
with INTERFACE RANGE G0/0/0, a comma, and
then G0/1/0.
Use IP ADDRESS DHCP to make them learn their
IP addresses via DHCP, and don’t forget
NO SHUTDOWN to enable them; router interfaces
are disabled by default.
Next, let’s configure G0/0; this is the
interface connected to CSW1.
INTERFACE G0/0.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.33 255.255.255.252.
NO SHUTDOWN.
Then G0/1, the interface connected to CSW2.
INTERFACE G0/1.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.37 255.255.255.252.
NO SHUTDOWN.
And finally, create loopback 0 with INTERFACE
LOOPBACK0, and configure IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.76,
and a /32 netmask.
So, let’s check R1’s interfaces with DO
SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF.
Okay, G0/0/0 and 0/1/0 learned IP addresses
via DHCP, and G0/0, G0/1, and loopback0 have
the IP addresses we configured.
This is the only step involving R1 in this
section of the lab, so I’ll use DO WRITE
to save its configuration.
Before moving on, let’s take a look at that
spreadsheet I mentioned a couple of times;
it might be useful when you do this lab.
The first tab lists each device’s physical
connections.
For example, here at the top left we can see
that R1 G0/0 is connected to CSW1 G1/0/1,
and G0/1 is connected to CSW2 G1/0/1.
Feel free to refer to this chart, or use SHOW
CDP NEIGHBORS in the lab to figure out how
the devices are connected.
Then, in the IPv4 tab, you can see each device’s
IP addresses.
For example, on the R1 to ISP A link, you
can see the subnet here, 203.0.113.0/30.
Here is ISP A’s IP address, 203.0.113.1.
And here is R1 G0/0/0’s address, .2, which
it learned via DHCP.
All of the other subnets are listed here too.
R1 to ISP B, the management subnet for Office
A, the management subnet for office B, etc.
Once again, feel free to refer to this chart
as needed as you configure this lab.
Okay, let’s return back to the lab itself.
Step 1 is complete, so let’s move on to
step 2, which says to enable IPv4 routing
on all core and distribution switches.
That just requires a single command on each
switch: IP ROUTING.
So, let’s quickly do that on each of them,
starting with CSW1: IP ROUTING.
Then CSW2: IP ROUTING.
DSW-A1.
DSW-A2.
DSW-B1.
And DSW-B2.
Okay, that’s all for step 2.
Next, in step 3 we’ll create a Layer-3 EtherChannel
between CSW1 and CSW2 using a Cisco-proprietary
protocol, so PAgP, and both should actively
try to form an EtherChannel, so we’ll use
desirable mode.
The subnet is 10.0.0.40/30, and CSW1 should
use .41 and CSW2 .42.
Okay, let’s configure that on CSW1 first.
First, let’s see which interfaces are connected
to CSW2.
DO SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS.
Okay, we can see two entries for CSW2, connected
to CSW1’s G1/0/2 and G1/0/3 interfaces.
And they are connected to the same interfaces
on CSW2: G1/0/2 and 3.
So, let’s configure them with INTERFACE
RANGE G1/0/2-3.
First, I’ll make them routed ports with
NO SWITCHPORT.
Then, make the EtherChannel with CHANNEL-GROUP
1 MODE DESIRABLE.
A Layer-3 EtherChannel’s IP address must
be configured on the port channel interface,
so INTERFACE PORT-CHANNEL1.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.41 and a /30 netmask.
Now let’s do the same on CSW2.
INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/2-3.
NO SWITCHPORT.
CHANNEL-GROUP 1 MODE DESIRABLE.
Then configure the port-channel: INTERFACE
PORT-CHANNEL1.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.42 and a /30 netmask.
Okay, let’s check the EtherChannel with
DO SHOW ETHERCHANNEL SUMMARY.
So, on PortChannel1 RU means Layer 3 and in
use, which is good.
And the member ports both have the P flag,
which is also what we want.
Let’s quickly test by pinging CSW1: DO PING
10.0.0.41.
Because the ARP process in Packet Tracer is
slow, you might see the first ping or two
time out, but then the others work.
And if you ping a second time, they all work.
Okay, that’s all for step 3.
Next, let’s look at steps 4 and 5 together,
which involve configuring the appropriate
interfaces on CSW1 and CSW2.
We just configured the EtherChannel that connects
them, and now we have to configure their other
interfaces, which should all be routed ports.
Their G1/0/1 interfaces connect to R1: CSW1
G1/0/1 is 10.0.0.34/30 and CSW2 is .38.
Then, their G1/1/1, 2, 3, and 4 interfaces
each connect to the distribution switches.
Then, configure a loopback interface on each
of them.
Finally, notice that it also says to disable
all unused interfaces.
Remember that as a security best practice.
So, you can see all of the IP addresses here.
I don’t think you need to see me configuring
these IP addresses one by one, so let’s
look at the commands in the notepad and then
I’ll just copy and paste them.
So, here we are, part 3 step 4, CSW1.
On each of its physical interfaces, I’ll
first use NO SWITCHPORT to make it a routed
port, and then just configure the IP address.
Then I’ll configure loopback0, and disable
the unused interfaces, which are G1/0/4 to
24.
So, I’ll highlight and copy all of these
commands.
Then I’ll go into the CLI of CSW1, right
click, and paste them.
And then EXIT.
This is actually the last step that involves
CSW1 in this part of the lab, so I’ll use
DO WRITE to save the configuration here.
Now let’s do the same for CSW2.
I’ll go back to the notepad, and scroll
down to Part 3, step 5.
So, the commands for CSW2 are identical, aside
from the different IP addresses.
So, let’s highlight and copy these commands,
go to the CLI of CSW2, right click, and paste
them in.
Then I’ll EXIT and use DO WRITE to save
the config.
Okay, steps 4 and 5 are complete.
Now let’s do steps 6, 7, 8, and 9 together,
which involve configuring IP addresses on
the distribution switches’ connections to
the core switches, as well as a loopback interface
on each distribution switch.
Like steps 4 and 5, these steps just involve
configuring IP addresses on interfaces, so
I’ll copy and paste them from my notepad.
First, here’s part 3 step 6, configuring
DSW-A1.
On G1/1/1 and G1/1/2, the connections to CSW1
and CSW2, we’ll configure 10.0.0.46/30 and
.62/30, and then we’ll create loopback0
and configure .79/32.
So, I’ll copy these commands, paste them
into DSW-A1’s CLI, and then EXIT.
Then I’ll go back to the notepad for step
7, configuring DSW-A2.
The commands are the same, just with different
IP addresses.
So, I’ll highlight and copy these commands,
go into the CLI of DSW-A2, right click, paste,
and then EXIT.
Okay, back to the notepad for DSW-B1, which
is step 8, configuring .54/30, .70/30, and
.81/32 on the loopback.
So, highlight and copy these commands, go
into the CLI of DSW-B1, right click, paste,
and then EXIT.
And finally go back to the notepad for step
9, configuring DSW-B2.
I’ll highlight and copy these commands,
go to the CLI of DSW-B2, right click, paste,
and then EXIT.
Okay, steps 6, 7, 8, and 9 are done; we’ve
configured IP addresses on the distribution
switches’ physical and loopback interfaces.
Step 10 is a bit different.
Instead of configuring IP addresses in the
IOS CLI, we’ll configure SRV1’s IP settings
in the Packet Tracer GUI: default gateway
10.5.0.1, IPv4 address 10.5.0.4, with a /24
subnet mask.
So, after clicking on SRV1 go to the Config
tab.
Here, we can configure SRV1’s IPv4 default
gateway: 10.5.0.1.
Then, on the left click on FastEthernet0,
and then IPv4 address 10.5.0.4.
It uses a /8 subnet mask by default because
it’s a Class A address, but change that
to /24.
Okay, we’ve configured SRV1’s IP settings,
so that’s all for step 10.
Step 11 says to configure the following management
IP addresses on the access switches, using
the VLAN 99 interface, and configure the appropriate
subnet’s first usable address as the default
gateway.
So, these access switches are layer 2 switches,
but we want to be able to connect to them
remotely for configuration via SSH, so we
need to configure an IP address and default
gateway on each of them.
ASW-A1, A2, and A3 have IP addresses in the
10.0.0.0/28 subnet, so we’ll configure the
first usable address of that subnet – .1
– as their default gateway.
ASW-B1, B2, and B3 have IP addresses in the
10.0.0.16/28 subnet, so we’ll configure
.17 as their default gateway.
Let’s start in Office A with ASW-A1.
To configure a layer-2 switch’s default
gateway, use IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY, and then
the IP address, 10.0.0.1.
Now let’s configure the VLAN 99 SVI.
INTERFACE VLAN 99.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.4, and the prefix length
is /28, so 255.255.255.240.
EXIT.
This is the last step involving these access
switches in this part of the lab, so I’ll
use DO WRITE to save the config.
And now let’s move on to ASW-A2.
Same default gateway, IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY 10.0.0.1.
INTERFACE VLAN 99.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.5 and a /28 netmask.
EXIT.
And save the config with DO WRITE.
And then the same on ASW-A3.
IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY 10.0.0.1.
INTERFACE VLAN 99.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.6 /28.
EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Office A is done, let’s move on to Office
B, configuring the 10.0.0.16/28 subnet for
management, with .20 for ASW-B1, .21 for B2,
and .22 for B3.
ASW-B1 first.
IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY 10.0.0.17.
INTERFACE VLAN 99.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.20 /28.
EXIT.
DO WRITE.
ASW-B2 next.
IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY 10.0.0.17.
INTERFACE VLAN99.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.21 /28.
EXIT.
DO WRITE.
And finally, ASW-B3.
IP DEFAULT-GATEWAY 10.0.0.17.
INTERFACE VLAN 99.
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.22 /28.
EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Okay, we’ve configured a management IP address
on each access switch.
That’s all for step 11.
In the remaining steps for this part, steps
12 to 19, we will be configuring HSRP on each
office’s distribution switches.
We need to configure HSRP for 4 subnets in
each office.
In Office A, we need HSRP for the management
subnet, the PCs subnet, the Phones subnet,
and the Wi-Fi subnet.
In Office B, we need HSRP for the management
subnet, the PCs subnet, the Phones subnet,
and the Servers subnet.
I’ll demonstrate the complete configuration
for DSW-A1 and A2 in Office A, but for the
sake of time I’ll just copy and paste the
configurations for Office B.
So, steps 12 to 15 focus on Office A. Step
12 says to configure HSRP version 2 group
1 for office A’s management subnet, which
is VLAN 99.
We should make DSW-A1 the active router by
increasing its priority to 5 above the default.
The default is 100, so we should make it 105.
And then, enable preemption on DSW-A1, the
active router.
The subnet is 10.0.0.0/28, with .1 as the
virtual IP, .2 for DSW-A1, and .3 for A2.
So, let’s configure that on DSW-A1 first.
These distribution switches will be the default
gateway for hosts in each subnet, and they
will use HSRP to provide redundancy.
Okay, so on DSW-A1 configure INTERFACE VLAN
99.
First, I’ll configure DSW-A1’s own IP:
IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.2 with a /28 netmask.
Then I’ll enable HSRP version 2 with STANDBY
VERSION 2.
Next I’ll configure the VIP with STANDBY
1 IP 10.0.0.1.
Now let’s ensure that DSW-A1 becomes the
Active router by increasing the priority to
105: STANDBY 1 PRIORITY 105.
Finally, let’s enable preemption so this
switch will always be the active switch as
long as it is up and running.
STANDBY 1 PREEMPT.
Next let’s configure DSW-A2’s side of
the management subnet.
INTERFACE VLAN 99.
DSW-A2’s IP is IP ADDRESS 10.0.0.3 and a
/28 netmask.
Then, enable HSRPv2 with STANDBY VERSION 2.
And finally, configure the VIP with STANDBY
1 IP 10.0.0.1.
That’s all we have to configure on DSW-A2.
We can leave it at the default priority since
we already raised DSW-A1’s priority.
And there’s no need to configure preemption
on the standby router, although you can use
the command if you want to – it won’t
do any harm.
So, we’ve configured HSRP for the management
subnet.
Next, let’s move on to step 13, in which
we’ll configure HSRPv2 for the PCs subnet.
Once again, DSW-A1 should be the active router.
However, notice that it says to configure
group 2, instead of group 1.
The configurations will be nearly identical,
but we will use a different group number and
different IP addresses: the subnet is 10.1.0.0/24,
with .1 as the VIP, .2 for DSW-A1, and .3
for A2.
Let’s start with DSW-A1.
INTERFACE VLAN 10.
First, configure the interface’s IP with
IP ADDRESS 10.1.0.2 255.255.255.0.
Then, enable HSRPv2 with STANDBY VERSION 2.
Then I’ll configure the VIP with STANDBY
2 IP 10.1.0.1.
Make sure to use the correct group number
here.
Then, I’ll raise the priority with STANDBY
2 PRIORITY 105.
And finally STANDBY 2 PREEMPT.
Okay, now let’s configure DSW-A2’s side.
INTERFACE VLAN 10.
IP ADDRESS 10.1.0.3 /24.
STANDBY VERSION 2.
STANDBY 2 IP 10.1.0.1.
Okay, that’s all for A2.
Now we have two more HSRP groups to configure
for Office A in steps 14 and 15.
For these two groups, we will make DSW-A2
the active router instead of A1.
Let’s start with step 14, configuring HSRPv2
group 3 for the phones subnet.
The subnet is 10.2.0.0/24, with .1 as the
VIP, .2 for DSW-A1, and .3 for DSW-A2.
I’ll start with DSW-A2 this time.
INTERFACE VLAN 20.
IP ADDRESS 10.2.0.3 /24.
Then enable HSRPv2, STANDBY VERSION 2.
Configure the VIP: STANDBY 3 IP 10.2.0.1.
And this switch should be the active router,
so STANDBY 3 PRIORITY 105.
STANDBY 3 PREEMPT.
And now, DSW-A1’s side.
INTERFACE VLAN 20.
IP ADDRESS 10.2.0.2 /24.
STANDBY VERSION 2.
STANDBY 3 IP 10.2.0.1.
Finally, we have one more HSRP group to configure
for step 15: the Wi-Fi subnet, VLAN 40.
Again, DSW-A2 should be the active router.
The subnet is 10.6.0.0/24, with .1 as the
VIP, .2 for DSW-A1, and .3 for DSW-A2.
And note that the HSRP group is 4.
Let’s start on DSW-A2.
INTERFACE VLAN 40.
IP ADDRESS 10.6.0.3 /24.
STANDBY VERSION 2.
STANDBY 4 IP 10.6.0.1.
STANDBY 4 PRIORITY 105.
STANDBY 4 PREEMPT.
And then let’s configure DSW-A1’s side.
INTERFACE VLAN 40.
IP ADDRESS 10.6.0.2 /24.
STANDBY VERSION 2.
STANDBY 4 IP 10.6.0.1.
Okay, we’ve finished configuring HSRP in
Office A. DSW-A1 is the active router for
groups 1 and 2, and DSW-A2 is the active router
for groups 3 and 4.
Let me save the config with DO WRITE and EXIT
to return to global config mode.
Then I’ll do the same on A2.
DO WRITE.
EXIT.
Steps 16 to 19 are the same thing, but for
Office B. HSRPv2 group 1 is for the management
subnet, VLAN 99.
Group 2 is for the PCs subnet, VLAN 10.
Group 3 is for the Phones subnet, VLAN 20.
And Group 4 is for the Servers subnet, VLAN
30.
DSW-B1 should be active for groups 1 and 2,
and DSW-B2 should be active for groups 3 and
4.
Instead of going through the configurations
one by one, I’ll just copy and paste them
from my notepad.
So, here we are.
Part 3, steps 16 to 19.
DSW-B1 will be primary for HSRP groups 1 and
2, and standby for groups 3 and 4.
Let me highlight and copy these configurations.
And then go into the CLI of DSW-B1.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DO WRITE.
And now DSW-B2, let’s look at the commands
in the notepad.
So, this switch will be standby for groups
1 and 2, and active for groups 3 and 4.
Let’s highlight and copy these commands,
go into the CLI of DSW-B2, right click, paste,
EXIT.
DO WRITE.
Okay, we’re finally done with part 3.
We configured IP addresses on R1 and all of
these switches, configured Layer-3 EtherChannel
between CSW1 and CSW2, and configured various
HSRP groups among these distribution switches.
Now I’ll click Next to move on to part 4.
Part 4 is all about Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol.
This part shouldn’t take so long.
In step 1, we’ll configure Rapid PVST+ on
the access and distribution switches, and
then in step 2 we’ll enable PortFast and
BPDU Guard on the appropriate ports.
So, let’s get right into it with step 1.
First of all, we should enable Rapid PVST+
on the distribution and access switches.
By default, these switches in Packet Tracer
run standard PVST+, not the Rapid version.
To prove that, I’ll go on DSW-A1 and use
DO SHOW SPANNING-TREE.
Notice that it says ‘Spanning tree enabled
protocol ieee’.
Note that this doesn’t mean it’s running
IEEE-standard Spanning Tree Protocol; this
means it is running Cisco’s Per-VLAN Spanning
Tree Plus, PVST+.
To change it to Rapid PVST+, the command is
SPANNING-TREE MODE RAPID-PVST.
And let’s double check with DO SHOW SPANNING-TREE
again.
Okay, now it says ‘rstp’, meaning Rapid
PVST+ is enabled.
Okay, let me highlight the SPANNING-TREE MODE
RAPID-PVST command and copy it.
Now I’ll quickly go on to the other switches
and paste it in.
DSW-A2 first.
Right click, paste.
Then DSW-B1.
Right click, paste.
And DSW-B2.
Right click, paste.
Then the access switches.
ASW-A1.
Right click, paste.
And A2.
Right click, paste.
And A3.
Right click, paste.
Then ASW-B1.
Right click, paste.
Then ASW-B2.
Right click, paste.
And finally, ASW-B3.
Right click, and paste.
Okay, now all of these switches are running
Rapid PVST+, instead of the classic PVST+.
Now let’s look at the sub steps of step
1.
1a says to ensure that the Root Bridge for
each VLAN aligns with the HSRP active router
by configuring the lowest possible STP priority.
So, that means a priority of 0.
So, in Office A, DSW-A1 should be the root
for the Management VLAN, which is VLAN 99,
and the PCs VLAN, which is VLAN 10.
And DSW-A2 should be the root for the Phones
VLAN, VLAN 20, and the Wi-Fi VLAN, VLAN 40.
The same applies for Office B, with the Servers
VLAN replacing the Wi-Fi VLAN.
Okay, and then B says to configure the HSRP
standby router for each VLAN with an STP priority
one increment above the lowest priority.
So, the lowest priority is 0.
What’s one increment above that?
Well, STP priority is configured in increments
of 4096, so one increment above 0 is 4096.
Let’s configure that on each distribution
switch, starting with DSW-A1.
So, first I’ll set its priority to 0 for
VLANs 10 and 99 with SPANNING-TREE VLAN 10,99
PRIORITY 0.
You can also do it in two separate commands
– one for VLAN 10 and one for VLAN 99 – the
effect is the same.
Let me double check that it’s the root bridge
now – VLAN 10 first.
DO SHOW SPANNING-TREE VLAN 10.
Okay, it says ‘this bridge is the root’.
And then for VLAN 99.
DO SHOW SPANNING-TREE VLAN 99.
Okay, same for this VLAN.
Then, I’ll set its priority to 4096 for
VLANs 20 and 40 – the phones VLAN and the
Wi-Fi VLAN.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 20,40 PRIORITY 4096.
Okay, that’s all for this switch in this
part of the lab, so I’ll use DO WRITE to
save the config.
Now let’s configure DSW-A2.
First, I’ll set its priority to 0 for VLANs
20 and 40.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 20,40 PRIORITY 0.
Next, let’s set it to 4096 for VLANs 10
and 99.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 10,99 PRIORITY 4096.
And save the config with DO WRITE.
Now let’s do the same thing in Office B.
First, I’ll set DSW-B1’s priority to 0
for the PCs VLAN and the Management VLAN – VLANs
10 and 99.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 10,99 PRIORITY 0.
And then set it to 4096 for the Phones VLAN
and the Servers VLAN – VLANs 20 and 30.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 20,30 PRIORITY 4096.
And let’s save the config with DO WRITE.
And finally, DSW-B2.
First, I’ll set the priority to 0 for VLANS
20 and 30.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 20,30 PRIORITY 0.
And then to 4096 for VLANs 10 and 99.
SPANNING-TREE VLAN 10,99 PRIORITY 4096.
And then save the config with DO WRITE.
Now let’s do step 2, which says to enable
PortFast and BPDU Guard on all ports connected
to end hosts, including WLC1.
Perform the configurations in interface config
mode.
Okay, so PortFast allows ports connected to
end hosts to immediately move to the STP Forwarding
state, without having to wait 30 seconds to
transition through listening and learning.
You should generally configure it on ports
connected to end hosts so they don’t have
to wait to access the network after physically
connecting to the switch.
BPDU Guard, on the other hand, is used to
disable a port if it receives a spanning tree
BPDU.
You should configure it on ports connected
to end hosts to prevent users from connecting
an unauthorized switch to the network.
So, I’ll start on ASW-A1.
First, I’ll configure PortFast and BPDU
Guard on F0/1, which is connected to LWAP1.
INTERFACE F0/1.
SPANNING-TREE PORTFAST.
SPANNING-TREE BPDUGUARD ENABLE.
And now F0/2, which is connected to WLC1.
INTERFACE F0/2.
SPANNING-TREE PORTFAST.
Let’s pause for a second here.
Notice the second warning message.
Portfast has been configured on F0/2 but will
only have effect when the interface is in
a non-trunking mode.
That’s a problem: F0/2 is a trunk port,
because it’s connected to WLC1 and needs
to support the Management and Wi-Fi VLANs.
Here’s the solution.
I’ll use the up arrow to go back to the
command, and then use the question mark.
Notice the TRUNK option.
As the description says, this will enable
portfast on the interface even in trunk mode.
Okay, so SPANNING-TREE PORTFAST TRUNK.
There we go.
And now I’ll enable BPDU Guard.
SPANNING-TREE BPDUGUARD ENABLE.
EXIT.
And save the config with DO WRITE.
Okay, so we’re done with ASW-A1.
It was a special case because of that trunk
port.
The other access switches only have one host
connected and require the same commands to
enable PortFast and BPDU Guard, so I’ll
return to my notepad.
Here are the commands.
INTERFACE F0/1.
SPANNING-TREE PORTFAST.
SPANNING-TREE BPDUGUARD ENABLE.
So, I’ll copy these commands, and let’s
paste them into ASW-A2.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
And save with DO WRITE.
Then ASW-A3.
Right click, paste, EXIT, DO WRITE.
And ASW-B1.
Right click, paste, EXIT, DO WRITE.
Then B2.
Right click, paste, EXIT, DO WRITE.
And finally, ASW-B3.
Right click, paste, EXIT, DO WRITE.
Okay, that’s all for part 4 of this lab.
We enabled Rapid PVST+ on the distribution
and access switches, modified the priority
values of the distribution switches for each
VLAN to align with the HSRP active and standby
routers, and then configured PortFast and
BPDU Guard on the access switches.
Now I’ll click Next to go to part 5.
This part of the lab is all about static and
dynamic routing.
In step 1, we’ll configure OSPF on R1 and
the core and distribution switches.
Then, in step 2 we’ll configure default
routes on R1 for its Internet connections,
and then make R1 an ASBR that advertises its
default route to other routers in the OSPF
domain.
So, let’s get started with step 1.
Step 1 says to configure OSPF on R1’s LAN-facing
interfaces, so these two connected to CSW1
and 2, and all Core and Distribution switches,
specifically on all Layer-3 interfaces.
Now, there are a lot of specific instructions
below, so before jumping into the configurations
it’s important to read all of these.
A says to use process ID 1 and Area 0.
B Says to manually configure each device’s
router ID to match the loopback interface
IP.
So, R1’s loopback is 10.0.0.76, CSW1’s
is .77, CSW2’s is .78, etc.
Okay, then C says that, on switches, you should
use the NETWORK command to match the exact
IP address of each interface.
In other words, use the NETWORK command with
a /32 wildcard mask, which is 0.0.0.0, to
enable OSPF on each interface.
Then D says that you should enable OSPF in
interface config mode on R1.
You can do that with the IP OSPF 1 AREA 0
command on each interface.
Moving on to E, it says to make sure OSPF
is enabled on all loopback interfaces, too.
And they should be passive interfaces.
And F says that each distribution switch’s
SVIs, except the management VLAN SVI, should
be passive too.
So, by default, after enabling OSPF on the
distribution switch SVIs, they will send OSPF
hello messages out of their SVIs to the LANs.
And they will receive each other’s Hellos
and become OSPF neighbors.
However, we don’t need them to become neighbors
four times – once for each VLAN.
We’ll make all SVIs except the Management
SVI passive, so they will only send hellos
out of the Management SVI.
Finally, G says to configure all physical
connections between OSPF neighbors to use
a network type that doesn’t elect a DR and
BDR.
In other words, you should configure the point-to-point
network type on the interfaces.
Note that, in packet tracer, the necessary
command isn’t available on the Layer-3 PortChannel
interface between CSW1 and CSW2.
So, we’ll leave this link as the default
network type.
Okay, so we have a lot of configurations to
do.
I’ll configure the first couple of devices
one command at a time in the CLI to walk you
through the process, but after that I’ll
just copy and paste the commands.
So, let’s open the CLI of R1 and get started.
First, I’ll create the OSPF process with
ROUTER OSPF 1.
Now, let’s specify R1’s router ID.
Actually, if I check the current router ID
with DO SHOW IP OSPF, you can see that the
ID is 10.0.0.76 – the IP address of its
loopback interface.
However, step 1b said to manually configure
each device’s router ID, so I will do that
with ROUTER-ID 10.0.0.76.
Okay, there is only one more command to configure
in this mode, which is PASSIVE-INTERFACE LOOPBACK0.
We haven’t enabled OSPF on loopback0 yet,
but let’s do that next.
The instructions said to activate OSPF in
interface config mode on R1, so INTERFACE
LOOPBACK0.
And then activate OSPF with IP OSPF 1 AREA
0.
And now we just have to activate OSPF on R1’s
two LAN-facing interfaces, connected to CSW1
and CSW2.
Those are G0/0 and 0/1, so INTERFACE RANGE
G0/0-1.
Let’s activate OSPF.
IP OSPF 1 AREA 0.
And then also configure the point-to-point
network type.
IP OSPF NETWORK POINT-TO-POINT.
Okay that’s all for R1.
We configured its router ID, made its loopback
interface passive, activated OSPF on the appropriate
interfaces, and configured the point-to-point
network type.
Next, I’ll go on CSW1.
First, create the OSPF process with ROUTER
OSPF 1.
And like on R1, I’ll first configure the
router ID with ROUTER-ID 10.0.0.77 – the
IP address of its loopback interface.
And let’s make the loopback passive: PASSIVE-INTERFACE
LOOPBACK0.
Now, for the switches, the instructions say
to activate OSPF using the NETWORK command
with a /32 wildcard mask.
So, let’s see the IP addresses of CSW1’s
interfaces.
If I use DO SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF like this,
the output is full of these interfaces without
any IP address.
To filter out these interfaces from the output,
let me add a pipe to the end of the command,
EXCLUDE, and then ‘un’ to filter any lines
that include ‘unassigned’.
There we go; now we can only see the interfaces
that have an IP address.
So, let’s activate OSPF on these interfaces
in order, starting with port-channel 1.
NETWORK 10.0.0.41 0.0.0.0 AREA 0.
And now I can simply hit the up arrow to return
to that command, and then change the IP address
to .34 for the G1/0/1 interface.
And then up arrow again, change it to .45
for G1/1/1.
Up arrow again, .49 for G1/1/2.
Then again for G1/1/3, .53.
Up arrow again, change it to .57 for G1/1/4.
And one more time, change it to .77 for loopback0.
Okay, we’ve activated OSPF on all of CSW1’s
interfaces.
But there’s one more thing to configure
on CSW1: we need to configure the point-to-point
network type on its physical ports: G1/0/1,
and G1/1/1, 2, 3, and 4.
So, INTERFACE RANGE G1/0/1, a comma, and then
G1/1/1-4.
And configure the network type with IP OSPF
NETWORK POINT-TO-POINT.
Okay, that’s all for CSW1.
Finally, I’ll EXIT and use DO WRITE to save
the config.
The configurations for the rest of the switches
are similar, so I’ll just copy them from
the notepad and then paste them into each
device.
To repeat what I said before, when you are
doing this lab yourself, it’s important
that you prepare all of these configurations
yourself – otherwise, it’s not practice.
But, for the sake of the video, let’s do
this to speed things up – the video is long
enough as is.
So, CSW2’s configurations are identical
to CSW1’s, just with different IP addresses.
So, I’ll copy them, go into the CLI of CSW2,
and paste them in.
Then I’ll EXIT and save the config with
DO WRITE.
Now let’s return to the notepad and look
at the commands for DSW-A1.
We’ll set its router ID, make its loopback
interface passive, and also make its SVIs
passive for VLANs 10, 20, and 40 – but not
for the management VLAN, VLAN 99.
Then activate OSPF on each interface.
And finally configure the point-to-point network
type on G1/1/1 and 1/1/2 – those are the
physical links connecting to CSW1 and 2.
So, I’ll highlight and copy these commands,
go to the CLI of DSW-A1, and paste them.
Then, EXIT and DO WRITE.
Okay, and now let’s return to the notepad
and look at DSW-A2’s configurations.
These are identical to DSW-A1’s, just with
different IP addresses.
So, I’ll copy them, go into the CLI of DSW-A2,
and paste them.
Then EXIT and DO WRITE.
Now, before moving on let’s check its OSPF
neighbors.
DO SHOW IP OSPF NEIGHBOR.
So, it has three neighbors.
10.0.0.79 is DSW-A1.
Notice that the interface is VLAN 99.
If we didn’t make the VLAN 10, 20 and 40
SVIs passive, DSW-A1 and A2 would become OSPF
neighbors with each other four times – once
for each SVI – that isn’t necessary.
And notice that, because we made G1/1/1 and
1/1/2 point-to-point, no DR or BDR are elected
for the connections with CSW1 and CSW2: 10.0.0.77
and 78 here.
Okay, now let’s do the same for DSW-B1 and
B2 in Office B. So, I’ll return to the notepad.
The configurations are basically identical,
with different IP addresses of course.
And instead of VLAN 40, Office B has VLAN
30.
But that’s it.
So, I’ll copy these commands for DSW-B1,
open its CLI, and paste them.
Then I’ll EXIT and DO WRITE.
And finally, let’s return to the notepad
and copy the commands for DSW-B2.
Once again, these commands are identical,
just with different IP addresses.
Open the CLI of DSW-B2, paste the commands,
and EXIT, DO WRITE.
Okay, we’re done with step 1, configuring
OSPF.
Now let’s move on to step 2.
It says to configure one static default route
for each of R1s Internet connections.
They should be recursive routes, meaning they
should specify a next hop IP address, but
not an exit interface.
For review, recursive routes specify only
the next hop IP, directly connected routes
specify only the exit interface, and fully
specified routes specify both.
2a says to make the route via G0/1/0 a floating
static route by configuring an AD value 1
greater than the default, and then B says
that R1 should function as an ASBR, advertising
its default route to other routers in the
OSPF domain.
Okay, let’s go back to the CLI of R1.
So, R1 has two Internet connections.
Let’s see.
DO SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF.
There they are: G0/0/0 and G0/1/0.
Both of them have a /30 prefix length.
You can confirm that with DO SHOW IP INTERFACE
G0/0/0.
You can see that here in the second line,
Internet address is 203.0.113.2/30.
A /30 subnet only has two usable addresses,
.1 and .2 in this case, so that means the
ISP’s IP address must be 203.0.113.1.
Let’s check with DO PING 203.0.113.1.
Okay, so that should be the next hop IP of
one of the routes.
And let’s verify the other one.
DO SHOW IP INTERFACE G0/1/0.
Okay, Internet address is 203.0.113.6/30.
This is the .4/30 subnet, and the other usable
address is .5, which should be the ISP’s
address.
Let’s ping it.
DO PING 203.0.113.5.
Okay, it works.
That should be the next hop IP of the other
default route.
So, let’s configure those routes.
The first one, via 203.0.113.1.
IP ROUTE 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 203.0.113.1.
Okay, that’s it.
Now let’s configure the second one via .5
and make it a floating static route.
IP ROUTE 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 203.0.113.5.
Now, the instructions say to make the AD 1
higher than the default.
What’s the default administrative distance
of a static route in Cisco IOS?
It’s 1, so let’s specify 2 here.
So, we configured two default routes.
Let’s verify that only one is active in
the routing table.
DO SHOW IP ROUTE.
Look down at the bottom, and there it is.
0.0.0.0/0, via 203.0.113.1.
Perfect.
Finally, let’s do step 2b, in which we’ll
make R1 an OSPF ASBR so it advertises its
default route.
To do that, go back to OSPF config mode with
ROUTER OSPF 1.
And then use DEFAULT-INFORMATION ORIGINATE.
And that’s it.
Finally, I’ll use EXIT and DO WRITE.
Now, if I go to any of the layer-3 switches,
such as DSW-B2, and use DO SHOW IP ROUTE,
I should see the default route.
You can see it down at the bottom of the routing
table.
Notice it has two routes installed: one with
CSW1 as the next hop, and one with CSW2 as
the next hop.
Now, if I ping R1’s internet IP from this
switch, it should work.
DO PING 203.0.113.2.
Okay, the ping works.
Now, what about the ISP’s IP address?
Let’s try.
DO PING 203.0.113.1.
It gets five Us in reply, meaning ‘unreachable’.
The reason for that is DSW-B2 is pinging from
a private IP address, which the ISP’s router
doesn’t accept.
To solve that, we need to configure NAT, network
address translation.
So, let’s click Next in the lab instructions
to move on to Part 6.
In part 6 of this lab, we’ll configure various
network services like DHCP, DNS, NTP, SNMP,
Syslog, FTP, SSH, and NAT.
We’ve got a lot of configurations to do
in this section, so let’s get started with
step 1, which says to configure the following
DHCP pools on R1 to make it serve as the DHCP
server for hosts in Offices A and B. Also,
we must exclude the first ten usable addresses
of each pool.
So, which pools do we need to configure?
First, a pool for Office A’s management
subnet.
LWAP1 will lease an IP address from this pool.
Then, a pool for Office A’s PCs.
PC1 and PC2 will use this pool.
And then a pool for Office A’s phones, which
Phone1 and Phone2 will use.
Then, we will configure the equivalent management,
PC, and phone pools for Office B, and finally
a single pool for wireless clients.
So, all of these pools will use similar commands,
just with different IP addresses.
I’ll configure the first one manually, but
then copy and paste the others.
But before we configure the pools, let’s
configure the excluded address ranges: the
first ten addresses of each subnet.
To do that, I’ll open up my notepad again.
So, here’s part 6 step 1.
These are the seven ranges of addresses we’ll
exclude, in the same order as the instructions.
Office A’s management, PC, and phone subnets.
Then Office B’s management, PC, and phone
subnets.
And finally, the Wi-Fi subnet.
The command is IP DHCP EXCLUDED-ADDRESS, followed
by the first address in the range, and then
the last address in the range.
So, these commands exclude the first 10 usable
host addresses of each subnet, so R1 won’t
assign them to clients.
I’ll highlight and copy these commands,
and then go into the CLI of R1, and paste
them.
Now let’s configure the DHCP pools.
Like I said, I’ll do the first one, for
Office A’s management subnet, manually.
Let’s look at the info again.
The subnet is 10.0.0.0/28, and the default
gateway is 10.0.0.1, which is the HSRP VIP
that we configured on DSW-A1 and A2.
The domain name is jeremysitlab.com, the DNS
server is 10.5.0.4, which is SRV1, and then
the WLC is 10.0.0.7, WLC1.
And note that name: A-Mgmt.
This has to match or it won’t be marked
correctly when you click ‘Check Results’.
So, let’s go back to the CLI of R1, and
use IP DHCP POOL A-Mgmt to create the pool.
Then, use NETWORK 10.0.0.0 255.255.255.240
to specify the 10.0.0.0/28 subnet.
And DEFAULT-ROUTER 10.0.0.1 to specify the
default gateway.
Next, configure the domain name with DOMAIN-NAME
jeremysitlab.com.
And then I’ll specify SRV1 as the DNS server
with DNS-SERVER 10.5.0.4.
Finally, we need to specify the WLC address
for lightweight access points.
Actually, take another look at the network.
In office A, when LWAP1 sends a broadcast
message to identify any WLCs in the network,
WLC1 will receive that broadcast and respond.
So, we technically don’t need to specify
the WLC address in this DHCP pool.
However, for Office B’s management DHCP
pool, it is necessary.
When LWAP2 sends a broadcast message, it won’t
reach WLC1, so we should specify WLC1’s
IP address in the DHCP pool, so LWAP2 can
send a unicast message directly to WLC1 to
connect.
However, the lab instructions say to configure
the WLC address for this pool, so let’s
go back to the CLI.
I’ll use the question mark to see the available
commands.
To specify a WLC address, we have to use the
OPTION keyword.
After that, specify the option number.
The correct number here is option 43, then
IP, and then the IP address: 10.0.0.7.
So, that’s the command: OPTION 43 IP 10.0.0.7.
Okay, so that’s the first pool, and the
rest will use basically the same commands,
so let’s go back to the notepad.
Here are the commands for the rest of the
pools: A-PC, A-Phone, B-Mgmt, B-PC, B-Phone,
and Wi-Fi.
I’ll highlight and copy these commands,
return to the CLI of R1, right click, and
paste.
And EXIT.
Okay, so step 1 is done.
But if I use DO SHOW IP DHCP BINDING on R1
it won’t show any DHCP leases.
The reason for that is that clients’ broadcast
DHCP requests won’t reach R1.
So, in step 2 we’ll configure the distribution
switches to function as DHCP relay agents,
forwarding clients’ broadcast messages to
R1’s loopback0 IP address, which is 10.0.0.76.
To do that, we need to use the IP HELPER-ADDRESS
command on the interfaces that receive clients’
broadcast DHCP messages.
In this case, those are the various SVIs on
each switch.
I’ll go back to the notepad to see the commands.
On DSW-A1 and A2, we’ll use IP HELPER-ADDRESS
10.0.0.76 on the VLAN 10, 20, 40, and 99 SVIs.
And then on B1 and B2 it’ll be for VLANs
10, 20, 30, and 99.
The thing to note here is that this command
must be configured on the correct interface:
the interface that receives the broadcast
DHCP messages from clients.
More specifically, the layer-3 interface:
each SVI in this case, not the physical layer
2 switch port.
Okay, let’s copy the commands for Office
A, then open the CLI of DSW-A1.
And paste the commands in.
EXIT.
Okay, DSW-A2 needs the same commands, so let’s
open its CLI, and paste the commands in.
EXIT.
Then, I’ll return to the notepad and copy
these commands for Office B.
The only difference is that it uses VLAN 30
instead of VLAN 40.
Now I’ll go on to DSW-B1.
And paste the commands in.
EXIT.
Finally, DSW-B2.
Let’s paste the commands in here, and EXIT.
Okay, we’re done with step 2.
Now hosts should be able to lease IP addresses.
To test, I’ll go on PC1.
From the Desktop tab, click on Command Prompt.
And then use IPCONFIG /RENEW to send a DHCP
DISCOVER and lease an IP address.
And a few seconds later, it works.
Let’s try some pings now.
How about pinging R1’s loopback interface?
PING 10.0.0.76.
Okay, the ping works.
And how about one of R1’s internet interfaces?
PING 203.0.113.2.
That ping works as well.
However, what if I ping the ISP router at
PING 203.0.113.1.
As you can see, this ping doesn’t work.
Once again, this is because we need to configure
NAT on R1.
That’ll be later in a later step.
But now, let’s move on to step 3.
In this step, we’ll configure some DNS entries
on SRV1: one for google.com, one for youtube.com,
and one for jeremysitlab.com.
The three most popular sites on the web.
And then we’ll create another entry mapping
www.jeremysitlab.com to jeremysitlab.com.
So, let’s open up SRV1 again.
And from the services tab, click on DNS.
First, make sure to turn on the DNS service
here, or SRV1 won’t respond to DNS queries.
Now let’s create those three IP address
mappings.
To map a domain name to an IPv4 address, we
need to make an A record, which is the default
here.
So, I’ll type google.com for the name, and
then let’s check that address.
172.253.62.100.
Okay, so I’ll just highlight the address
here, left click and copy, and then paste
it here and click Add to add the entry.
Next, type youtube.com for the name.
And let’s copy the address here.
152.250.31.93.
And paste it in the address box, and add the
entry.
Finally, type jeremysitlab.com for the domain
name, and let’s copy the address.
66.235.200.145.
And then paste it in the address bar.
Okay, so we’ve created three A records mapping
names to IP addresses.
Now we have to map a name to another name,
and for that we need a CNAME, canonical name,
record.
So, in the ‘name’ box type www.jeremysitlab.com.
And then in the host name box type jeremysitlab.com.
Okay, we’ve created the DNS records.
Now let’s test if DNS works.
I’ll go back to PC1, and first let’s ping
SRV1 to make sure that PC1 can reach it.
PING 10.5.0.4.
Okay, PC1 can reach SRV1.
Now let’s try one of those entries we created.
PING google.com.
Okay, the ping failed because we still haven’t
configured NAT, but notice that DNS itself
worked.
Using DNS, PC1 was able to translate google.com
into this IP address.
And how about PING jeremysitlab.com.
Same thing, the ping doesn’t work, but DNS
resolution does work.
And one more: PING www.jeremysitlab.com.
Same thing.
Notice that it was translated to the same
IP address as jeremysitlab.com.
www.jeremysitlab.com was translated into jeremysitlab.com,
which was then translated into this IP address.
Next, in step 4, we’ll configure all routers
and switches to use the domain name jeremysitlab.com
and to use SRV1 as their DNS server.
This requires the same two commands on all
devices, so once again I’ll just copy and
paste the commands from the notepad.
Those two commands are IP DOMAIN NAME jeremysitlab.com
and IP NAME-SERVER 10.5.0.4.
I’ll copy these commands, and then paste
them into each device.
Feel free to skip ahead in the video.
So, R1 first.
Right click, paste.
And CSW1.
Right click and paste.
And then CSW2.
Moving on to the distribution switches.
DSW-A1.
DSW-A2.
And then DSW-B1.
And DSW-B2.
And then the access switches.
ASW-A1 first.
Then ASW-A2.
And then A3.
And then Office B. ASW-B1.
ASW-B2.
And ASW-B3.
And just to test that DNS works on these devices,
first let’s ping SRV1 from here on ASW-B3.
DO PING 10.5.0.4.
Okay, the ping works.
And now let’s try DO PING google.com.
Okay, once again the ping itself doesn’t
work, but DNS was able to translate the name
into an IP address.
Now let’s move on to step 5, in which we’ll
configure NTP.
5a says to make R1 a stratum 5 NTP server.
We can do that with the NTP MASTER command.
And then 5b says that R1 should learn the
time from NTP server 216.239.35.0.
5c is just a note saying that you don’t
need to wait for NTP to sync – it can take
a very long time, so once you’ve done the
configurations you can just move on.
So, let’s go on the CLI of R1.
To make R1 an NTP server with a specific stratum
level, use NTP MASTER, followed by the stratum,
which should be 5 in this case.
So, that’s the first half.
Next, to make R1 sync to an external NTP server,
use NTP SERVER, followed by the IP address,
which is 216.239.35.0.
And that’s all for step 5 – like I said,
NTP takes a very long time to sync, so let’s
just move on.
Step 6 is a continuation of step 5.
We’ll configure NTP on all core, distribution,
and access switches, making them sync to R1.
Specifically, they should use the IP address
of R1’s loopback interface.
Additionally, these clients should authenticate
R1 using key number 1 and the password ‘ccna’.
So, first I’ll create the authentication
key on R1, and then configure the clients.
To create the key, the command is NTP AUTHENTICATION-KEY,
followed by the key number, which should be
1, MD5, and then the key itself, ccna.
However, that’s not enough; we need to specify
it as a “trusted key” with NTP TRUSTED-KEY
1.
Okay, that’s all for R1.
Now let’s do the clients: all of the switches.
The configurations are identical on all switches,
so I’ll do one manually and then copy and
paste the rest.
So, let’s go on CSW1.
First, use the same two commands we just configured
on R1.
NTP AUTHENTICATION-KEY 1 MD5 ccna.
And then NTP TRUSTED-KEY 1.
So, we’ve created the authentication key
and trusted it.
Next, let’s tell CSW1 to sync to R1, while
using key number 1 for authentication.
The command is NTP SERVER 10.0.0.76 KEY 1.
And that’s it.
As I said, NTP takes forever to sync, so we
won’t wait for that.
Let’s just configure the other switches.
So, I’ll go to the notepad, and here it
is: part 6, step 6.
I’ll highlight and copy those three commands,
and let’s go to CSW2 next, and paste them
in.
And now the distribution and access switches.
Again, feel free to skip ahead in 
the video.
DSW-A1.
DSW-A2.
DSW-B1.
DSW-B2.
And then the access switches, starting with
A1.
Then ASW-A2.
ASW-A3.
ASW-B1.
ASW-B2.
And ASW-B3.
Okay, that’s all for NTP.
Next, in steps 7 and 8, we’ll configure
SNMP and Syslog.
I’ll do these two steps together because
all devices need the same commands, so I can
just copy and paste them together.
Let’s see the requirements.
Step 7 says to configure the SNMP community
string SNMPSTRING on all routers and switches.
It should allow GET messages, but not SET
messages.
So, that means it should be a read only string,
rather than a read-write string.
Let’s configure that on R1 before looking
at the Syslog requirements.
The command to configure an SNMP community
string is SNMP-SERVER COMMUNITY, followed
by the string, SNMPSTRING in this case, and
then RO for read only.
That’s it.
With that configured, an SNMP server should
be able to send SNMP GET messages to read
information from this router.
Now let’s go back to see the Syslog requirements
in step 8.
It says to send Syslog messages to SRV1, and
messages of all severity levels should be
logged.
Then 8b says to enable logging to the buffer,
and reserve 8192 bytes of memory for the buffer.
So, let’s go into R1 and configure that.
First we need to send Syslog message to SRV1.
To enable that, just use LOGGING 10.5.0.4.
And we need to ensure that messages of all
severity levels are sent.
So, levels 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0.
To configure that, use LOGGING TRAP DEBUGGING.
That enables logging at the debugging level,
level 7, and below.
Finally, we need to enable logging to the
buffer, which is stored in local memory on
the device.
The command to do that is LOGGING BUFFERED,
but the instructions also specify that the
buffer’s size should be 8192 bytes, so add
8192 to the end of this command.
There we go.
Let’s quickly check that everything is correct
with DO SHOW LOGGING.
So, logging to the console, monitor, and buffer
are all enabled at level debugging.
And if I scroll to the bottom, you can see
that the buffer is 8192 bytes in size.
The rest of the devices all need the exact
same commands as R1, so let me open up the
notepad and copy these commands under part
6, steps 7 and 8.
And now let’s paste them into the remaining
devices, CSW1 first.
Then CSW2.
DSW-A1.
DSW-A2.
DSW-B1.
DSW-B2.
And the access switches, starting with ASW-A1.
A2.
A3.
ASW-B1.
ASW-B2.
And finally, ASW-B3.
So, we’ve configured SNMP and Syslog on
all of these devices.
Now let’s move on to step 9.
In step 9, we’ll use FTP on R1 to download
a new IOS version from SRV1.
To do so, well first configure R1’s default
FTP credentials in 9a, copy the file from
SRV1 in 9b, and then reboot R1 using the new
IOS version in 9c.
So, let’s do 9a first, which says to configure
username and password cisco on R1.
To configure the username, the command is
IP FTP USERNAME, and in this case the username
should be cisco.
And then to configure the password it’s
IP FTP PASSWORD cisco.
That’s it.
Next let’s look closer at step 9b.
We should use FTP to copy this file from SRV1
to R1’s flash drive.
So, you can copy the file name right here
from the instructions, but let’s go find
it on SRV1.
From the services tab on SRV1, click on FTP,
and you can see the available files here.
Look for c2900 universal, there it is.
So, click on the file name here, use ctrl-c
to copy, and now let’s go back to R1.
First, let’s verify that R1 can ping SRV1.
DO PING 10.5.0.4.
Okay, connectivity is fine.
Now let’s copy the file to flash with DO
COPY FTP: FLASH:.
First, it asks for the address of the remote
host.
Enter 10.5.0.4 for SRV1.
Then the source filename, the name of the
file on SRV1.
So, I’ll paste that filename that I just
copied here.
And finally, the destination filename.
Just hit enter here to accept the default,
which is the same as the source filename.
Now, it’ll start copying the file.
Just a warning, this is going to take a very
long time.
It’ll take so long that you’ll think it’s
not working, but it is.
So if you’re doing the lab now, get up,
grab a drink, take a break, and come back
later.
I’ll stop the video here and return when
the download is complete.
Okay, the download is done.
I’ll use DO SHOW FLASH: to view the file.
There it is.
Now let’s configure R1 to boot using this
new IOS image.
First, highlight and copy the filename if
you need to.
Then, to tell R1 to boot from this file, use
BOOT SYSTEM FLASH:, and then paste the filename.
Now, before rebooting the router it’s very
important to save the config; otherwise, the
BOOT SYSTEM command won’t take effect.
So, use DO WRITE.
And before rebooting, let’s also use DO
SHOW VERSION, and look at the top line of
the output.
Version 15.1.
After rebooting, we’ll check to make sure
that it changes.
So, I’ll use DO RELOAD to reboot the router.
This can take quite a few minutes on a real
device, but fortunately these routers in Packet
Tracer only take about 10 or 15 seconds.
Once it has booted up, log in with cisco and
password ccna.
Then ENABLE and password jeremysitlab.
And now let’s check the version again with
SHOW VERSION.
So, look at the top line, and there it is:
version 15.5, upgraded from the previous 15.1.
Now let’s look at the instructions one more
time.
At the end of step 9c it says to delete the
old IOS file from flash.
So, let’s view the contents of flash again
with SHOW FLASH.
And then highlight the filename of the old
version, right click and copy the name.
And then delete it with DELETE FLASH, with
a colon, and then paste the filename here.
So, delete the file, and let’s double check
with SHOW FLASH once more.
Okay, now it’s gone.
So, we’re done with step 9.
Let’s take a look at step 10 next.
It says to configure SSH for secure remote
access on all routers and switches.
Okay, let’s read through the requirements.
10a says to use the largest modulus size for
the RSA keys.
10b says to allow SSH version 2 connections
only.
10c says to create and apply a standard ACL
that allows only packets sourced from Office
A’s PCs subnet.
So only PCs in that subnet will be able to
use SSH to configure these devices.
10d says we should only allow SSH connections
to the VTY lines – no Telnet.
E says to require users to log in with a local
user account when connecting via SSH.
And then finally we must configure synchronous
logging on the VTY lines.
So, this is another step where we have to
configure the same thing on all of these devices.
First, let’s go on R1 and walk through each
step.
First, I’ll return to global config mode
with CONF T. To use SSH, we need to create
an RSA key pair.
Let’s do that with CRYPTO KEY GENERATE RSA.
Now it asks for the key modulus size.
This plays a big role in determining the security
of the keys; a larger size is more secure.
The instructions said to use the largest size
available, and as you can see here that is
4096 bits.
So, enter 4096 here and press enter.
Now I’ll use DO SHOW IP SSH to check the
SSH version.
Notice that SSH version 1.99 is enabled. 1.99
isn’t actually a version of SSH.
It just means that R1 accepts both SSH version
1 and version 2 connections.
Let’s change that with IP SSH VERSION 2.
And confirm with DO SHOW IP SSH again.
So, now R1 will only accept SSHv2 connections.
Next, before we configure the VTY lines, let’s
create that ACL that allows only the Office
A PCs subnet.
The subnet is 10.1.0.0/24, so ACCESS-LIST
1 PERMIT 10.1.0.0 0.0.0.255.
And that’s it, we just need that one entry.
The implicit deny will block all other traffic.
Now let’s configure the VTY lines with LINE
VTY 0 15.
First, I’ll apply that ACL.
To apply an ACL to an interface, the command
is IP ACCESS-GROUP, but for the VTY lines
it’s ACCESS-CLASS, then the ACL name or
number, 1 in this case, and IN.
Next, I’ll allow only SSH connections – no
Telnet, since it isn’t secure.
TRANSPORT INPUT SSH.
And let’s require users to log in with a
local user account, just like we configured
on the console line at the beginning of this
lab.
LOGIN LOCAL.
And then enable synchronous logging with LOGGING
SYNCHRONOUS.
Okay, that’s all for R1.
I’ll EXIT back to global config mode.
The other devices require the same commands,
so once again I’ll copy and paste them from
the notepad.
First, generating the keys with CRYPTO KEY
GENERATE RSA, and then 4096 to specify the
modulus size.
Enabling SSH version 2, configuring an ACL
and applying it to the VTY lines.
Allowing only SSH, requiring login with a
local user account, and enabling synchronous
logging.
Let’s copy these commands, and then paste
them into the other devices.
CSW1 first.
Paste in the commands, and EXIT.
Then CSW2.
Right click and paste, and then EXIT.
DSW-A1.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
DSW-A2.
Right click, paste, exit.
DSW-B1.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
And B2.
Right click, paste, exit.
Finally, the access switches, starting with
A1.
Paste the commands, EXIT.
Then A2.
Paste the commands, EXIT.
And A3.
Right click, paste, EXIT.
Then ASW-B1.
Paste the commands, EXIT.
And B2.
Paste the commands, EXIT.
And finally ASW-B3.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
Okay, now before moving on let’s test SSH
by connecting to one of the devices.
I’ll go on PC1.
From the command prompt, I’ll try to ping
R1’s loopback.
PING 10.0.0.76.
Okay, PC1 can reach R1.
Now let’s SSH.
SSH -l cisco 10.0.0.76.
Enter the password ‘ccna’, and we’re
in.
So, SSH works from PC1.
Now I’ll EXIT out of there.
Next I’ll try from PC3, let’s open its
command prompt.
Because of the ACL we applied, SSH shouldn’t
work from PC3 – it’s not in the Office
A PCs subnet.
First I’ll just use IPCONFIG /RENEW to make
sure that PC3 got an IP address, since we
just configured DHCP in this part of the lab.
Okay, and next I’ll ping R1 with PING 10.0.0.76.
Okay, the ping works.
Finally, let’s try SSH.
SSH -l cisco 10.0.0.76.
Connection refused by remote host, so the
ACL is working.
That’s all for step 10.
Steps 11 and 12 focus on NAT, Network Address
Translation.
We’ll configure static NAT in step 11, and
then pool-based dynamic PAT in step 12.
So let’s read step 11 first.
It says to configure static NAT on R1 to enable
hosts on the Internet to access SRV1 via the
IP address 203.0.113.113.
So, we just need to configure a static NAT
statement mapping SRV1’s inside local address,
10.5.0.4, to the inside global address 203.0.113.113.
It only takes a single command.
Let’s open up the CLI of R1, and configure
it with IP NAT INSIDE SOURCE STATIC, then
the inside local address, which is 10.5.0.4,
followed by the inside global address, which
is 203.0.113.113.
Now, we’ve configured the static NAT statement,
but there’s still something missing; we
need to specify the inside and outside interfaces.
R1 G0/0/0 and G0/1/0 are connected to the
Internet, so I’ll make them the outside
interfaces.
INTERFACE RANGE g0/0/0 and g0/1/0.
IP NAT OUTSIDE.
And then the inside interfaces are G0/0 and
G0/1, connected to CSW1 and CSW2.
INTERFACE RANGE G0/0-1.
IP NAT INSIDE.
And EXIT.
Okay, so we’ve configured static NAT for
SRV1.
That should allow hosts on the Internet to
communicate with SRV1 by sending their packets
to 203.0.113.113.
It should also allow SRV1 to ping hosts on
the Internet, so let’s test that.
I’ll go back to SRV1, and let’s open up
the command prompt, and then try PING google.com.
Okay, the ping doesn’t work.
Even though SRV1 is a DNS server, we have
to specify itself as its own DNS server in
Packet Tracer.
So go to the config tab, and add 10.5.0.4
as the DNS server here.
This isn’t part of the lab steps by the
way.
I’m just doing it to test.
Next, return to the command prompt, and let’s
try PING google.com again.
Okay, now the ping works.
So, step 11 is done.
In step 12, we’ll configure dynamic PAT,
port address translation, to enable the other
hosts in these LANs to communicate over the
Internet.
We will configure pool-based dynamic NAT,
so we’ll need an ACL to define the appropriate
inside local addresses, a NAT pool to define
a range of inside global addresses, and then
we’ll map them to each other with a NAT
statement.
So, let’s first create the ACL, looking
at step 12a.
It says to use standard ACL 2 to define the
appropriate inside local address ranges in
the following order.
Office A PCs, Office A phones, Office B PCs,
Office B Phones, and then Wi-Fi.
I’ll open the CLI of R1 again, and let’s
make that ACL.
First, I’ll permit the Office A PCs subnet.
ACCESS-LIST 2 PERMIT 10.1.0.0 0.0.0.255.
Then I’ll hit the up arrow, and let’s
change that to 10.2.0.0 for the Office A Phones
subnet.
And then do it again, permitting 10.3.0.0
for the Office B PCs.
And then again, configure 10.4.0.0 for the
Office B Phones.
And finally permit 10.6.0.0/24 for the Wi-Fi
subnet.
So, that ACL defines the range of inside local
addresses that will be translated when communicating
over the Internet.
Now let’s look at step 12b.
We need to define the pool of inside local
addresses – the public IP addresses.
The pool’s name should be POOL1, with a
range from 203.0.113.200 to .207 and a /29
netmask.
So, let’s go back on to R1.
And create the pool with IP NAT POOL POOL1,
and then the starting IP address, 203.0.113.200.
And then the ending IP address, 203.0.113.207.
NETMASK, and then 255.255.255.248 for /29.
Okay, we’ve created the ACL and the pool.
Now let’s do step 12c, which says to map
ACL 2 to POOL1 and enable PAT, and then confirm
that hosts can access the Internet.
So, let’s go back to R1 and configure the
NAT statement.
IP NAT INSIDE SOURCE LIST 2 POOL POOL1, and
then don’t forget OVERLOAD to make it PAT,
instead of regular dynamic NAT.
Okay, the NAT configuration is done, so let’s
test it out on PC1.
From PC1, let’s do PING jeremysitlab.com.
Okay, the ping works.
So, our dynamic PAT configuration was correct.
Now, step 12d says to verify that Internet
link failover works by disabling R1 G0/0/0
and pinging again.
However, note the paragraph here: you will
need to remove and re-configure the DEFAULT-INFORMATION
ORIGINATE command on R1 for this to work.
When R1 loses its primary default route and
inserts the floating default route into the
routing table, it won’t automatically advertise
the new route into OSPF.
As this explanation says, you can use DEFAULT-INFORMATION
ORIGINATE ALWAYS to work around this, but
it’s not available in Packet Tracer.
So, let’s go on R1 now.
I’ll disable its G0/0/0 interface.
INTERFACE G0/0/0.
SHUTDOWN.
Now R1 should remove its main default route
from the routing table, and insert the floating
default route instead.
Next let’s go into OSPF config mode.
ROUTER OSPF 1.
And then use NO DEFAULT-INFORMATION ORIGINATE
to remove the command, and then reconfigure
it again.
DEFAULT-INFORMATION ORIGINATE.
So, R1 should now advertise its new default
route to other OSPF routers.
Let’s just double check that the floating
static route actually entered the routing
table.
DO SHOW IP ROUTE.
Okay, so down at the bottom of the output
you can see that R1’s default route has
an AD of 2 – this is the floating route
we configured earlier in the lab.
I’ll go on PC1 now and try that ping again.
PING jeremysitlab.com.
And it works again.
So, the failover worked.
Now let’s go back on R1 and undo that.
First, I’ll re-enable G0/0/0.
INTERFACE G0/0/0.
NO SHUTDOWN.
And then configure OSPF.
ROUTER OSPF 1.
NO DEFAULT-INFORMATION ORIGINATE.
DEFAULT-INFORMATION ORIGINATE.
And now I’ll EXIT.
Okay, we have one last step before wrapping
up this part of the lab.
In step 13, we’ll disable CDP on all devices
and enable LLDP instead.
We also must disable LLDP Tx, that’s transmission,
on each access switch’s access port, which
is F0/1.
So, since this is a fairly simple step, I’ll
go straight to showing the commands in the
notepad.
On R1, and the core and distribution switches,
we just need to use NO CDP RUN to disable
CDP, and then LLDP RUN to enable LLDP instead.
We’ll use the same commands on the access
switches, but also use NO LLDP TRANSMIT on
each switch’s F0/1 interface.
So, I’ll copy these commands for R1 and
the core and distribution switches.
And let’s go on R1 now.
Right click, paste, and since this is the
final step for this part of the lab I’ll
use DO WRITE to save the config.
Then CSW1.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
And CSW2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
DSW-A1.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
Then A2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
DSW-B1 next.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
And then B2.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
Now let’s go back to the notepad and copy
the commands for the access switches, disabling
LLDP transmission on their F0/1 interfaces.
Let’s paste them into ASW-A1 first.
Right click, paste and DO WRITE.
Then A2.
Right click, paste, and DO WRITE.
And A3.
Paste the commands, and save with DO WRITE.
Okay, three more.
On B1, right click, paste, DO WRITE.
ASW-B2.
Paste the commands in, DO WRITE.
And finally, ASW-B3.
Right click, paste, DO WRITE.
Okay, looking at the completion score, you
can see that we’re almost done with this
lab.
There are still three sections remaining,
but they will be shorter than this one.
So, let’s click on Next to move on to part
7.
In part 7, our focus is security.
We’ll configure and apply an extended ACL
to limit traffic from Office A’s PCs to
Office B’s PCs in step 1, and then configure
Port Security, DHCP Snooping, and DAI on the
access switches.
So, let’s get started with step 1.
It says to configure extended ACL OfficeA_to_OfficeB
where appropriate.
It should allow ICMP messages from the Office
A PCs to the Office B PCs, block all other
traffic from the Office A PCs to the Office
B PCs, but permit all other traffic.
Step 1d says to apply the ACL according to
general best practice for extended ACLs.
That general best practice is that extended
ACLs should be applied as close to the source
as possible.
Standard ACLs, on the other hand, should generally
be applied as close to the destination as
possible.
In this case, we are filtering traffic from
Office A’s PCs to Office B’s PCs, so the
source is Office A.
The access switches are layer 2, so we can’t
apply IP ACLs to their interfaces.
So, the closest location to the source is
the VLAN 10 SVI of DSW-A1 and DSW-A2 - the
default gateway for the Office A PCs.
Currently, DSW-A1 is the HSRP active router,
but we should configure and apply the ACL
on DSW-A2’s VLAN 10 SVI as well, since it
must be ready to take over if DSW-A1 fails.
So, let’s configure and apply it on DSW-A1
first, and then we’ll do the same on A2.
First, let’s create the ACL with IP ACCESS-LIST
EXTENDED OfficeA_to_OfficeB.
Now, we need to create three entries.
One to permit ICMP traffic from the Office
A PCs to the Office B PCs, one to deny other
traffic from the Office A PCs to the Office
B PCs, and then one to permit all other traffic.
The Office A PC subnet is 10.1.0.0/24, and
the Office B PC subnet is 10.3.0.0/24.
So, let’s configure the first entry.
PERMIT ICMP 10.1.0.0 0.0.0.255, that’s the
Office A subnet, 10.3.0.0 0.0.0.255, that’s
the Office B subnet.
For the second entry, it’s DENY IP, and
then the same subnets.
10.1.0.0 0.0.0.255 10.3.0.0 0.0.0.255.
And for the final entry, PERMIT IP ANY ANY
to allow all other traffic.
Now let’s apply it as close to the source
as possible, which is the VLAN 10 SVI – the
layer 3 interface that receives packets from
hosts in the Office A PC subnet.
INTERFACE VLAN 10.
IP ACCESS-GROUP OfficeA_to_OfficeB IN.
Okay, that’s all for DSW-A1.
I’ll use EXIT and then DO WRITE to save
the config.
Now I’ll go on DSW-A2 and configure the
same.
So, first create the ACL.
IP ACCESS-LIST EXTENDED OfficeA_to_OfficeB.
Then the first entry, permitting ICMP.
PERMIT ICMP 10.1.0.0 0.0.0.255 10.3.0.0 0.0.0.255.
Then deny other traffic.
DENY IP 10.1.0.0 0.0.0.255 10.3.0.0 0.0.0.255.
And permit all other traffic.
PERMIT IP ANY ANY.
And then apply it to the VLAN 10 SVI.
INTERFACE VLAN 10.
IP ACCESS-GROUP OfficeA_to_OfficeB IN.
Finally, EXIT and DO WRITE.
So, we’re done with step 1.
We created and applied an extended ACL as
close to the source as possible, filtering
traffic from the Office A PC subnet to the
Office B PC subnet.
Now let’s move on to step 2, in which we’ll
configure Port Security on the F0/1 port of
each access switch.
Let’s read the instructions.
2a says to allow the minimum necessary number
of MAC addresses on each port.
For example, for these ports with a phone
and a PC, two MAC addresses are needed: one
for the phone, and one for the PC.
The ports connected to LWAPs only need one
MAC address.
The LWAP tunnels all client traffic, so the
switch should only see the LWAP’s own MAC
address.
And this note mentions that SRV1 doesn’t
use virtualization, so it uses only a single
MAC address.
If it had virtual machines running on it,
each VM would have its own MAC address.
Okay, then step 2b says to configure a violation
mode that blocks invalid traffic without affecting
valid traffic.
And the switches should send notifications,
such as Syslog messages or SNMP traps, when
invalid traffic is detected.
So, that’s referring to the ‘restrict’
violation mode.
Finally, 2c says that switches should automatically
save the secure MAC addresses they learn to
the running-config.
In other words, we must enable sticky MAC
address learning.
So, let’s configure ASW-A1 manually and
then copy and paste the commands for the others.
Port Security is configured directly on the
interface, so INTERFACE F0/1.
First, enable it with SWITCHPORT PORT-SECURITY.
And then enable the ‘restrict’ violation
mode with SWITCHPORT PORT-SECURITY VIOLATION
RESTRICT.
And finally, enable sticky MAC address learning
with SWITCHPORT PORT-SECURITY MAC-ADDRESS
STICKY.
Okay, that’s all for ASW-A1.
I’ll EXIT to return to global config mode.
ASW-B1 and ASW-B3 also need the same commands.
So, I’ll go to the notepad, and here are
the commands.
Highlight and copy them, and then I’ll open
the CLI of ASW-B1 and paste them.
And then EXIT.
Then ASW-B3.
Paste the commands in, and EXIT.
Now let’s configure ASW-A2, A3, and B2.
They require an additional command.
Let’s open up the notepad again.
Because these switches connect to a phone
and a PC, we need to use the SWITCHPORT PORT-SECURITY
MAXIMUM 2 command to allow two MAC addresses:
the PC’s MAC address and the phone’s MAC
address.
I didn’t configure this command on ASW-A1,
B1, or B3, because the default number of allowed
addresses is 1, and that’s all that’s
needed on those ports.
So, I’ll highlight and copy these commands,
and now go on to ASW-A2 and paste them in.
And then EXIT.
Then ASW-A3.
Paste the commands, and EXIT.
And ASW-B2.
Paste the commands, and EXIT.
Okay, we’ve enabled Port Security on the
access switches, allowed the minimum necessary
number of MAC addresses, and configured the
restrict violation mode and sticky learning.
Now let’s move on to step 3, in which we’ll
configure DHCP Snooping on these switches.
There are a few requirements.
3a says to enable DHCP Snooping for all active
VLANs in each LAN.
So, VLANs 10, 20, 40, and 99 in Office A,
and VLANs 10, 20, 30, and 99 in Office B.
Then, we must trust the appropriate ports,
which are those pointing toward the DHCP server,
R1.
In other words, we must trust the G0/1 and
G0/2 uplinks that connect to the distribution
layer.
Then, in 3c we must disable insertion of option
82, also known as the relay agent information
option.
Then, we’ll set a DHCP rate limit of 15
pps, packets per second, on untrusted ports.
However, ASW-A1’s connection to WLC1 should
have a 100 pps limit.
Once again, I’ll manually configure ASW-A1
and then paste the configurations for the
other switches.
So, on ASW-A1 I’ll first enable DHCP Snooping
with IP DHCP SNOOPING.
However, we also need to enable it on a per-VLAN
basis, and the command is IP DHCP SNOOPING
VLAN 10,20,40,99.
Next, I’ll disable option 82 insertion with
NO IP DHCP SNOOPING INFORMATION OPTION.
That’s a step that people often forget;
it can prevent DHCP from working properly.
Okay, next I’ll trust the uplinks to the
distribution layer.
INTERFACE RANGE G0/1-2.
IP DHCP SNOOPING TRUST.
Next, let’s set rate limits for DHCP messages
on untrusted ports.
F0/1 first.
INTERFACE F0/1.
IP DHCP SNOOPING LIMIT RATE 15.
So, if ASW-A1 receives DHCP messages on this
interface at a rate greater than 15 packets
per second, the interface will be error-disabled.
And now F0/2, which is connected to WLC1.
INTERFACE F0/2.
IP DHCP SNOOPING LIMIT RATE 100.
Okay, that’s all.
EXIT.
Now let’s open the notepad and see the configurations
for the other switches.
I’ll highlight and copy the commands for
ASW-A2 and A3.
They are the same as A1, minus the F0/2 interface,
which is disabled on these two switches.
Okay, I’ll paste these commands into ASW-A2.
And then return to global config mode with
EXIT.
Next, ASW-A3.
Right click, paste, and EXIT.
Okay, let’s return to the notepad for the
Office B switches.
The commands here are almost identical, just
replacing VLAN 40 with VLAN 30, the Servers
VLAN.
So, after copying these commands, let’s
paste them into ASW-B1.
And then EXIT.
Then B2.
EXIT.
And finally, B3.
EXIT.
Okay, step 3 is done, now let’s move on
to step 4, in which we’ll configure DAI,
Dynamic ARP Inspection.
We need to enable it for all active VLANs,
trust the appropriate ports, and enable all
optional validation checks.
Once again, let’s configure ASW-A1 first.
Unlike DHCP Snooping, DAI only needs to be
enabled per-VLAN.
You don’t need to enable it globally.
So, first I’ll use IP ARP INSPECTION VLAN
10,20,40,99 to enable it.
Next, let’s enable the optional checks.
Usually, DAI checks to make sure a matching
entry exists in the DHCP Snooping binding
table.
But you can enable these checks to make it
perform a more thorough inspection of ARP
messages.
The command is IP ARP INSPECTION DST-MAC SRC-MAC
IP.
And finally, I’ll trust the two uplink ports.
INTERFACE RANGE G0/1-2.
IP ARP INSPECTION TRUST.
Okay, that’s all.
I’ll use EXIT and then save with DO WRITE
since this is the last step for this part.
Now I’ll open up the notepad and go to part
7 step 4.
So, here are the commands we just configured
on ASW-A1.
I’ll copy them, and then let’s paste them
into ASW-A2 and A3.
A2 first.
Paste the commands.
EXIT, and save with DO WRITE.
Then A3.
Paste the commands.
EXIT, and DO WRITE.
Now let’s go back to the notepad, and copy
the commands for Office B.
The commands are the same, just replacing
VLAN 40 with VLAN 30.
Enable DAI on each VLAN, enable the optional
checks, and then trust G0/1 and 2.
So, I’ll go on ASW-B1 first and paste the
commands in.
And then EXIT and save the config with DO
WRITE.
Then B2.
Copy the commands, EXIT and DO WRITE.
And finally, B3.
Copy the commands, EXIT, and DO WRITE.
Okay, we’re done with the security section
of this lab.
We configured and applied an extended ACL,
and then configured the layer-2 security features
Port Security, DHCP Snooping, and Dynamic
ARP Inspection.
I’ll click Next to move on to part 8.
Part 8 is all about IPv6.
However, we’re not going to do a full IPv6
configuration, just some IP addresses on R1,
CSW1, and CSW2, and a couple of routes on
R1.
Since this lab is already long enough, let’s
just test that you know the basic IPv6 configuration
commands for the CCNA exam.
So, in step 1 we’ll enable IPv6 routing
and configure IPv6 addresses on R1, CSW1,
and CSW2.
On R1 G0/0/0, which is connected to the Internet,
we’ll configure 2001:db8:a::2/64, and then
:b::2/64 on G0/1/0, which is also connected
to the Internet.
Then, for the connections between R1 and the
core switches, we’ll use these specified
prefixes, 2001:db8:a1::/64 and a2::/64, and
use EUI-64 to automatically generate interface
IDs.
Finally, for the EtherChannel connection between
CSW1 and CSW2, we’ll enable IPv6 on the
interfaces without using the IPV6 ADDRESS
command.
In other words, we’ll use the IPV6 ENABLE
command, which enables IPv6 and generates
a link-local address.
Okay, let’s get started by configuring R1.
Now, before configuring the interfaces, don’t
forget to enable IPv6 routing with IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING.
That’s a common command to forget.
Now I’ll configure G0/0/0, connected to
the Internet.
INTERFACE G0/0/0.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:db8:a::2/64.
And then G0/1/0.
INTERFACE G0/1/0.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:db8:b::2/64.
Okay, we’ve configured R1’s Internet-connected
interfaces, now let’s do the LAN-facing
interfaces.
Looking back at the instructions again, I
need to use this prefix with EUI-64 for G0/0,
and this prefix for G0/1.
Let’s return to the CLI and do that.
INTERFACE G0/0.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:db8:a1::/64 EUI-64.
And then G0/1.
INTERFACE G0/1.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:db8:a2::/64 EUI-64.
Alright, we’ve configured R1’s interfaces.
Now let’s quickly confirm with DO SHOW IPV6
INTERFACE BRIEF.
Okay, there are the four interfaces we just
configured, each with a link-local address
as well as the global unicast address we configured.
Now let’s configure CSW1 and CSW2’s G1/0/1
interfaces.
For both of them, we’ll use EUI-64 just
like we did on R1.
I’ll go on CSW1 first.
Before configuring the IP address, let’s
use IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING to enable IPv6 routing.
You should make a habit of configuring that
first so you don’t forget.
Next, INTERFACE G1/0/1.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:db8:a1::/64 EUI-64.
Okay, that’s CSW1.
Next I’ll go on CSW2.
First, enable IPv6 routing.
IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING.
And then configure the interface.
INTERFACE G1/0/1.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:db8:a2::/64 EUI-64.
Okay, finally let’s do the EtherChannel
between CSW1 and CSW2.
Since I’m already on CSW2, I’ll start
here.
INTERFACE PORT-CHANNEL1.
The instructions said to enable IPv6 without
using the IPV6 ADDRESS command, so the command
to use here is IPV6 ENABLE.
Let’s verify the effect of that command.
DO SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE BRIEF.
So, look at the port-channel1 interface.
Enabling IPv6 with IPV6 ENABLE automatically
generates a link-local address like this.
Okay, now I’ll save the config with DO WRITE
since this was the last configuration on CSW2.
And now I’ll go on to CSW1.
INTERFACE PORT-CHANNEL1.
IPV6 ENABLE.
And then save the config.
DO WRITE.
So, step 1 is done.
We configured IPv6 addresses in three different
ways: configuring the exact address, configuring
a /64 prefix and using EUI-64, and then using
IPV6 ENABLE.
Now in step 2, we’ll configure two default
static routes on R1, pointing to the Internet.
We’ll configure a recursive static route
via next hop 2001:db8:a::1, the ISP connected
to G0/0/0.
And then a fully-specified route via next
hop 2001:db8:b::1, the ISP connected to G0/1/0.
This second route should be a floating route,
with an AD 1 higher than the default.
Okay, let’s return to R1 to configure those
routes.
The instructions say the first route should
be a recursive route, meaning it should only
specify the next-hop IP address.
So, IPV6 ROUTE ::/0, that’s equivalent to
0.0.0.0/0 in IPv4, and then the next hop is
2001:db8:a::1.
Now the next route, which must be fully specified,
meaning it should specify both the exit interface
and the next-hop IP address.
It should also be a floating route.
So, IPV6 ROUTE ::/0 G0/1/0 2001:db8:b::1,
and then set the AD to 2 to make it a floating
route.
Okay that’s it, let’s save with DO WRITE.
And that’s all for part 8.
We configured IPv6 addresses on R1, CSW1,
and CSW2, and then configured a couple of
default routes on R1.
I’ll click next to move on to part 9.
Finally, we’ve reached last part of this
lab, in which we’ll configure a wireless
LAN using the GUI of WLC1.
Let’s take a look at the steps.
First, of course, we have to access the GUI
of WLC1, which has the IP address 10.0.0.7.
The login is admin with the password adminPW12.
In step 2 we’ll create a dynamic interface
for the Wi-Fi WLAN.
Then in step 3 create a wireless LAN.
And then finally we’ll verify that both
LWAPs have associated with WLC1.
There’s also a note saying that, due to
packet tracer’s limitations, wireless clients
won’t be able to properly lease an IP address
from the Wi-Fi DHCP pool.
In my experience, they always lease an IP
address from the management DHCP pool in Packet
Tracer.
Don’t worry about it – it’s just an
issue with packet tracer.
So, let’s get started.
I’ll access WLC1 from PC1.
First I’ll open up the command prompt and
ping WLC1 just to make sure PC1 can reach
it.
PING 10.0.0.7.
This should also ensure that all devices have
the correct ARP entries – it can be quite
slow in packet tracer.
Okay, next I’m going to leave the command
prompt and open up PC1’s web browser.
It can take a few seconds.
Once the browser opens up, use HTTPS to access
WLC1 by typing in the address bar.
HTTPS://10.0.0.7.
Here’s the login screen.
Click on Login, and then enter the username
admin and the password adminPW12.
Okay, we’re in.
Now let’s look closer at step 2.
We need to configure a dynamic interface for
the Wi-Fi WLAN, which is 10.6.0.0/24.
The name should simply be Wi-Fi, with VLAN
number 40.
It should use port number 1 on WLC1, its IP
address should be .2 of its subnet and default
gateway .1.
Finally, its DHCP server should be 10.0.0.76.
Okay, let’s configure that on WLC1.
To configure the WLC’s interfaces, open
the CONTROLLER tab.
Once it loads, click on Interfaces on the
left.
By default, the WLC has two interfaces: the
management interface and the virtual interface.
Let’s create a dynamic interface.
Scroll to the right of this page and click
on “New…”.
The first menu has the interface name and
VLAN ID.
So, let’s name the interface Wi-Fi, and
set the VLAN to 40.
Then, click Apply to move to the next menu.
We need to configure a few things here.
Scroll down to Physical Information and set
the port number to 1.
Then, under Interface Address set the IP to
10.6.0.2, the netmask to 255.255.255.0, and
the gateway to 10.6.0.1.
Finally, set the primary DHCP server to 10.0.0.76,
R1’s loopback interface.
Okay, that’s it.
Scroll up and click apply, and then click
Okay on the popup.
And we’re done.
I’ll click on Interfaces again to go back
to the list of interfaces, and as you can
see in the list, the interface has been created.
Next, let’s look at step 3.
We need to create a WLAN with the name and
SSID Wi-Fi, and ID number of 1.
We need to enable it, and set WPA2 with AES
encryption, and a pre shared key of cisco123.
Okay, let’s go back to WLC1 and configure
it.
WLANs are configured from the WLAN tab, of
course.
To create a new WLAN, just click on Go here
on the right.
In the first menu, we can set the profile
name, SSID and ID number.
Both of these should simply be Wi-Fi, and
the ID should be 1, so we don’t have to
change that.
Okay, click on Apply to move on to the next
screen.
On this next page, we need to configure a
couple of things.
First, click the checkbox here to enable the
WLAN.
Then, we should configure the interface; this
WLAN should use the Wi-Fi interface, not the
management interface.
Okay, after configuring that, click on the
Security tab.
Let’s enable WPA2.
From the layer 2 security drop-down, select
WPA+WPA2.
Then click on WPA2 policy.
For the encryption, AES is selected by default,
so we don’t have to change that.
Then click on PSK to enable pre-shared key
authentication.
And configure the PSK as cisco123.
And that’s it.
There are additional tabs here, but we don’t
have to configure them for this lab.
Most of the remaining settings don’t work
in packet tracer, anyway.
So, just click on apply in the top right to
apply the settings.
All configurations are done!
I’ll just click on Save Configuration to
save them.
After saving the configurations, click on
MONITOR to return to the first screen.
If you scroll down, you can see the access
points associated with WLC1.
There should be two: LWAP1 and LWAP2.
Click here to see a list, and here they are.
Okay, I’ll do one more thing before finishing
up.
Let’s open up Laptop1.
From the Config tab, click on the Wireless0
interface.
Let’s make it associate with LWAP1.
So, specify the SSID ‘Wi-Fi’ that we just
configured.
Under authentication, click on WPA2-PSK and
enter the PSK ‘cisco123’.
Finally, select the correct encryption type:
AES.
After a few seconds, Laptop 1 should associate
with LWAP1.
However, look back at the note under step
4 in the instructions once more.
Wireless clients won’t be able to lease
an IP address from the Wi-Fi DHCP pool.
The Wi-Fi subnet is 10.6.0.0/24.
But look at the IP address Laptop1 leased:
it’s in the 10.0.0.0/28 subnet: the Office
A management subnet.
But as I said, don’t worry about it.
The configurations we did here are correct.
It’s just a problem with packet tracer.
So, we’re finally done.
As the completion score of 100% here shows,
we did all of the steps correctly.
To be honest, if you’re studying for the
CCNA exam, I’d be surprised if you got 100%
on the first attempt – this is a huge lab
so you will most likely get a few things wrong.
If your score isn’t 100%, click on Check
Results and then assessment items, and then
click on ‘show incorrect items’.
This will show you which commands you got
wrong, so you can go back and fix them.
Okay, this video has gone on long enough,
so let’s end it here.
This was the Jeremy’s IT Lab CCNA Mega Lab.
I hope this lab and video were both challenging
and helpful.
Thanks for watching.
